-6-
STUDY OF RUMORS IN CHICAGO AREA - August 3 to August 8             ILLINOIS
war service" - frequently heard among Italians; "The Jews brought on the 
war" and "Jews have control of the Government in Washington" - frequently 
heard in Irish district on west-side Chicago; "Girls at USO Centers are 
primarily Jewish and soldiers stay away as they don't want to dance with 
them" - isolated rumor.
Sabotage: "A fire occurred in one of the subsidiaries of the Aluminum 
Corporation in Chicago and in trying to put it out, gasoline was found in 
the fire extinguishers" - occasionally heard in Hyde Park district of
Chicago; "A woman with her hand bandaged had a razor concealed therein and 
was cutting off the heads of matches at a plant" - occasionally heard; Yellow
Fever germs were placed in serum by spies in the Rockefeller Institute" - an 
isolated rumor; "A workman with bandaged bend destroyed shells at a Joliet 
ordnance plant" - isolated; "Twelve persons were found with false badges 
after an Elmwood ordnance plant explosion" - isolated rumor.
Miscellaneous: "The shelling of the Pacific Coast by Jap submarines caused 
tremendous damage" - frequently heard; "With money, you can buy off many
draft boards" - frequently heard; "The Japs would never have attacked us if 
we hadn't sent war material to England" - isolated rumor; "The OPA is
building up a political machine with all the new jobs" - isolated rumor; "A 
Minnesota manufacturer of cardboard received a number of orders for cartons 
and, after completing same, he endeavored to find out where to ship them. He 
continued to receive orders and continued to fill them until the plant was 
bogged down with unshipped cartons. An Army officer with the rank of Major
drove up to his plant and told him to keep producing. When the manufacturer 
asked where to ship this tremendous supply already completed, the Major 
advised that that wasn't his job as he was only in charge of getting the
material produced. After having filled with completed cartons all his supply

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.