CENTRAL 
PRESS CLIPPING 
SERVICE 
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 

LOUISVILLE, KY., COUR.-JOUR. 
Sunday, May 24, 1942


[?] Defense School. She has the training with five other out dozens of welders who now
been offered a job at 90 cents an women. Shoals, a small county are employed as aircraft welders 
hour in a factory working on seat town in southwestern In- in plants in several states.

Indiana University to give 
Summer Classes On Folklore 

Tradition study 
Will Be Stressed

Special to The Courier-Journal.
Bloomington, Ind., May 23--
Successful and distinguished folk- 
lorists will come to Indiana Uni- 
versity June 29-August 22 for the 
Summer Institute of Folklore of 
which Dr. Stith Thompson of the 
English department is director. 
Regular credit-giving courses 
will be conducted throughout the 
half-semester, which will serve to 
introduce students to the whole 
field of folklore and to train them 
in research methods. There will
also be non-credit lectures and 
demonstrations, roundtable dis-
cussions and opportunity for pri- 
vate conferences, as well as a
regular weekly series of public 
lectures.
In view of the impossibility of 
covering adequately the entire 
field, the institute will place its 

principal emphasis on the mani-
festation of tradition in tales,
songs and folk speech. The in- 
stitute will consist of divisions 
for collecting of folklore, study 
of folklore, enjoyment of folklore 
and folklore in literature and art. 
The instructional staff for the
institute will include Dr. Thomp- 
son, director; Ralph Steele Boggs, 
professor of romance languages, 
University of North Carolina;
Charles F. Voegelin, associate
professor of anthropology, Indi-
ana Univeristy; Harold Whitehall,
associate professor of English, In-
diana University; Alan Lomax, as-
sistant in charge, Archive of
American Folk-Song, Library of
Congress; John Jacob Niles, com-
poser and folksong collector, lec-
turer on folk music and singer
of folk ballads; Herbert Halpert,
folklore collecter, president, Hoo-
sier Folklore Society; George
Herzog, associate professor of
anthropology, Columbia Univer-
sity; Harold W. Thompson, pro-
lessor of English at Cornell Uni-
versity and president of the
American Folklore Society, and
Erminie W. Voegelin, honorary
fellow in anthropology and editor
of the Journal of American Folk-
lore.
JOHN JACOB NILES.
Draft Law

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.