A Brave People

We talk of making sacrifices,
but we are doing but a small
part compared to some of those
brave European countries. The
one I am now speaking of is
Jugoslavia. There is one man in
particular who stands out in my
mind; in everyone's mind for that
matter. That is the Serbian
guerilla leader - General Draja
Mihailovich. He leads a brave
band of Jugoslavians called the
Chetniks. These people are doing
all they possibly can to stop
Hitler and his murderers from
wiping out their beloved country.

The Chetniks hide out in
the mountains. Jugoslavia is a 
rugged, mountainous country, and
its people know these mountains
as well as they know their own
homes. This mountainous country
being new to the Nazis, confused
them. All the Nazi Armi is

[*(over)*]

[*Folder 124*]


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.