4

Either this is bound to be a case of parallel thinking of great 
interest to the psychologist or somebody has inadvert[a]ently put his 
lasso on his neighbor's hoss. In the old days of the frontier this 
was a serious offense, but I'm not even mad, for I propose to lift 
from "Cowboy Lingo" many of the cowboy's direct and pungent phrases
and use them freely in a private project on which I am now working. 
For this book is a real thesaurus on the subject. The Index alone 
is worth the price of the book. It is to be regretted that this 
index does not include all the words and phrases scattered through 
the text. However, as this index stands it is unquestionably the 
most inclusive collection of Western phrases yet published. Any 
old Westerner could add to it and there are many expressions which 
were "folk talk" long before there was a cowboy. But the job is 
competent and represents a lot of labor, even if there are a dearth 
of quotation marks. I notice three consecutive pages taken from
Frank Hastings' book on the Swenson Ranch, as well as all Frank's 
best stories and explanations of cowboy terms. But no mention is 
made of the source of this material or acknowledgment of help from 
anyone.

Below I give a list of fifty expressions chosen from several 
thousand that the author has dextrously sandwiches sometimes into 
stories of ranching, sometimes into good descriptive writing. A 
handsome prize will be given to each reader who can make a grade 
of 50% in defining these words. Messrs. J. Frank Dobie and Jim 
Haley are not barred from trying their hands:

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.