[*Contact*]

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY
LEXINGTON

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
INFORMATION
NEWS
RADIO
GENERAL SERVICES

February 20, 1942

Gentlemen:

In reply to your circular regarding your recording,
"Americans to the Back", I would like to have this
series for use on our educational station WBKY at
Beattyville.  However, before sending the series, let
me know if the copies I get need to be returned.  If they
do, then don't send them until I am able to schedule
these programs on the station, thereby giving you a
specific date and not tying them up for a longer time
than required.  If, however, they do not have to be
returned, I would be glad to get them as soon as
possible.

The scheduling of these programs interested me very
much and I was wondering if you had ever done anything
in the way of recording in the Kentucky mountains.  We
carry on considerable activity there in the way of (a)
Our Station WBKY at Beattyville, and (b) our forty
remote radio listening centers, and if you wish to do
any recording in this area with different types of
folk-lore, I would be glad to lend any assistance that
I can.

Sincerely yours,

Elmer G. Sulzer
Elmer G. Slzer

EGS:B





Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.