September 23, 1946

Mr. John A. Lomax
8170 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

    Richard Hill and I discussed recently the desirability of pre-
paring a bibliography of all your published work, including the
various editions of your books and your articles. We feel that this
is important, since your position as America's first collector of
any stature is unquestioned. The bibliography will be published in
NOTES, and reprints will be available to folklorisits.

    We will need from you only simple references to the articles
which have appeared by you or about you. Since so much has been
written in the press about you, I doubt that we should attempt to
include newspaper material unless the articles are extended or seem
to you to be important in that a specific article may state some
aspect of your career not recorded elsewhere.

    The references we would need would be only of the barest sort.
The READER'S DIGEST article about you, for example, you could refer
to us simply by giving the magazine and the year. Other articles
you may only remember by an approximate date. We will compile all the
data and forward it to you for a final check. Macmillan will be of
assistance on your books.

    I have used the word "we" above, but actually will do the work
myself. I hope that you approve the idea and can take a day off to
jot down guideposts for my assistance.

    I am enclosing a copy of the Librarian's General Order creating
a Folklore Section. This simply broadens the work. The Archive of
American Folk Song remains and your title of Honorary Curator of the
Archive continues also. The Archive, as a result, will be the only
subdivision in the section, which is interesting historically.

    With very best wishes to you and Mrs. Lomax,

    Very sincerely yours,
    Duncan Emrich
    Chief, Folklore Section

DE/k
Enclosure
General Order

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.