CAJUN   -35
New York came down.  And I think it, if I'm not mistaken, it 
was Blue Bird label.  And he recorded, I think four
different songs.  And [Waltz Criminal] was one of them.  And
he had a hard time in life.  His, he and hiw wife didn't get
along.  So he sings about he never knew that woman that he
could love so dearly would have such a criminal heart to
have left him all by himself.  And he was a, he was a child
of an unwed mother who had never seen his mama.  And he also
wrote a song about that.  And as they came back from New
Orleans they came to [Basile], him and the late Neil
[Swallow], who was his fiddle, fiddler.  And somebody got in
a fight and the poor fellow went to assist who was in the
fight and he was shot down like a dawg.  And his songs were
very, very touching.  The lyric was very deep.  And if you
knew the story of his life you've, nobody could listen to
none of his songs and not shed tears.  And the [Waltz
Criminal] was one of them.  And the family and I, my
brothers and I and even little Robert, you know, we just try
to imagine the state of mind the man had when he, when he
composed the song.  It's [really] touching.
AL  Tell us about Robert a little bit.
[UNCLEAR] the kind of person he is, just very briefly.
     :  Robert.
AL  You partner.
     :  I'm  very proud of Robert.  Robert is a 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.