BARRY ANCELET   -24
the school grounds whenever they were caught speaking their
mother tongue, their native language.  My father went to
school, didn't speak a word of English and he was told he
couldn't speak any English and so he didn't speak at all.
And you had little kids who wanted to go to the bathroom
and, and were afraid of being punished.  So they didn't
speak at all.  It was a really traumatic time.
     And all of that began to change again with
World War II.  World War I really marked the disintegration
of Arcadian society and World War II marked a, a change of
view, point of, change of attitude I think.  The returning
soldiers came back and they were tired of foreign wars and
going off in foreign places and being away from home and 
they wanted to soak in a hot cultural bath.  And they came
back home and they listened to their own music.  That's what
they wanted.  Their music represented something that they
really wanted.
     In 1948 Ira [Le Jean] recorded [La Vals de
Port Amore] with the accordian which had been absent for
about ten years from the recording scene.  And that shocked
everybody.  They, you know, they said well what's the matter
with him, he didn't know any better?  He, he carried his
recording around in a flour sac, you know, and I guess a lot
of people figured they, he didn't know any better.  But his,
the recording was an incredible success.  People loved it

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.