CAJUNS-LOMAX II   -27

going to find the Indian elements as well as black and white
in the southwestern Louisiana material.
     Is that what you wanted?  No.
     And, and as we move into this material we'll
see more and more about a, a new sound.  But we've already
got the new sound.  We've got blacks singing European tunes
their way. 
     Here we have two groups of people, the, the
blacks and the white Cajun living side by side at odds to
some extent because of the strong racial prejudice that
existed at the, and toward, and increasingly toward the end
of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century when, when
both groups were being more and more impoverished and being
pushed out.  And as always across the south the poor whites
were the worst enemies of the poor blacks.  Because
basically they were competing for the jobs and for survival
in this very harsh increasingly plantation directed upper
directed society.  So, but also they were sharing many
things.  They were both [UNCLEAR] and they both had the
French tradition of, of let the good times roll.  They were
both out for a good time and they had good times in parallel
and sometimes together on Saturday nights.  They swapped
music.  The blacks were playing European like music but in a
black way.  And the whites were playing black like way but
in a white way.  That was happening all the time.   So that
the exchange was going on cheek by jaw.  If it doesn't

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.