14
1389-90, Hackberry Ramblers

EDWIN
. . .laid out.  My daddy was laid out, he was all cut before
he even started up growing up.  Everything fit in place.
There were kerps (?).  There was heavy, heavy, heavy lumber,
two by twelve and the brace was two by ten, best I remember.
While, I was working building derricks, the rig runner on
the edge there, he kept seeing my climbing for a young boy
and he want ed me to work derricks for him.  So, my boss
said "why don't you go work for him", so I went up there and
worked derricks and that's when I started working in the
oilfield.  I worked as a roustabout about a year for Pure
Oil and I wasn't but a young man.  They had two wells,
pumping wells, in those days they used to use cups.  They'd
put a tubing down the in the hole with a screen and then
they'd put in some rods and pump it.  See, they wasn't going
deep enough.  When they started digging wells in those days,
they didn't know how to control the heathing (sp?) shale,
they called it heathing shale, there's a falling shale.  You
got shale, gumbo, whatever you call it, you got sand, you
got strata going down in your dig.  They used to go around
four thousand, five thousand feet and drill shallow wells.
So then they had to pump the oil out.  They found the sand,
you'd go over and find the sand you want, then you'd go over
set your casing, set your screen and then you'd have to 
pump it.
A. LOMAX
It was dangerous work though, wasn't it?
EDWIN
It was, it was.  If you were working up in derricks.
A. LOMAX
What would happen?
EDWIN
Well, if you'd fall, of course we all had safety belts, but
while you was climbing up there a lot of 'em was fallin'
off, slip, something like that.  If it was ice cold you was
up there, if it was freezing weather, you was up there.  I
worked up there when you had to kind of chip the ice off the
fober board (sp?).  They called it the fober board and they
come out with a finger board.  But it wasn't very deep going
in and then they come out and they started coming with an
improving on the mud.  See your mud, your weight of your mud


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.