ROLL 1
6

And made her dance the "Weavely
wheat"
and scattered her religion. 

Wow.

INTERVIEWER
So that reminds, when one listens to
that music it is almost as if it is 
in a kind of conflict with religion?

MAN
The fiddle was called of course the 
Devil's Stocking horse and there was
a proverbial saying, "Thick as 
fiddlers in hell." Even in Scotland
it was a companion of the devil and
it was the fiddle and the bottle
that lead people astray from the
sober ways that the Kirk was trying
to inculcate. 

INTERVIEWER
Do you think that is where the
expression "fiddle", fiddle ones
expenses or to fiddle ones taxes
comes from?

MAN
Probably, probably, but on the 
frontier,
[*fiddle & dance*]
the fiddle was like a 
cockcrow in the wilderness and they
had started a fiddler come into a
community and people would flock in 
there maybe for two weeks to dance
to him, there was no other way they
were going to get to dance for a 
fiddle because he was the only man

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.