LOMAX
PAGE 78 
[*15204929*]
[*15205527*]

[*A*] (continued)
[*7.12.15.27*]
There's a story - when I went to the Cajun 
country for the first time in ah 1933, the 
very word Cajun was ah - could be an insult to 
some people. Now everywhere you look there are 
signs: Cajun Furniture Store and ah, the 
football team is named the Ragin' Cajuns.  
So between halves, they have Denis with his 
friends up to get the medal. And this old 
buck, 83 years old, was not a bit fazed about 
playing for an audience of thousands of 
people, under the spotlight. In fact, I think 
it's the best performance I heard him give.

But to really get to know Denis and to know 
the poignancy of ah life in the Cajun country, 
you have to visit him on his front porch, and 
hear how - and hear his version of his life, 
which was a struggle against incredible 
poverty. This man was ah - is a regular 
pip [?].  Ah, his life is a story of great 
expectations. He was born an, an orphan and, 
and farmed out to somebody who raised him at 
the end of a rope end, and it was only the 
kindness of some neighbour who gave him a 
fiddle that made it possible for him to start 
on his musical career, when he was about 6.
[*07.13.26.17*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.