- 4 -

one of his best ballads is about a knight
who is captured by the Turks in the 
crusades and another one is about Lord
Baron and little Maddy Gross which is the
kind of carryings on that happened at home
when the lords went away on the crusades,
their ladies took up with the foot pages in 
the castle and many other songs felt
completely at home in the union struggle.
[*06.10.43.13*]  
I think that has always been true of this
breed of folks, to them their culture was
not anything sacrosanct or dead, it was a 
living force in their lives and the ballad
singers felt that and the instrumentalists
felt that, so when they were given the
chance to go on the air and make a new
communication systems over radio and were
given a chance to record, they took to it
like a duck to water and they made country 
music which has now become the mainstay of 
that whole part of the country, it has made
everybody feel good about being a backwoods
southerner where everybody felt ashamed
about being poor white trash before and now
country music is one of the things that
makes it comfortable to live there, where
it was uncomfortable to live there.  I 
think that is almost the most important 
function of the folk traditions is to endow
a place with the delights, the special
delights of creativity, one way or another, 
whether it was stories or painting, or 
pottery or song, it doesn't matter.  In
American cases it has been pretty largely
with song amazingly enough and very much so
with this southern mountain tradition and

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.