CAJUN CULTURE VO   -3

having a snort or two of rum or [Clarin] or whiskey or
whatever there was.  And, and talking over the weather, but
amusing them. . .selves with all kinds of stories about
hunting.  And here the fan, fantasy ran wild.  And this is
where, this was the scene for the folk tale.  And at all
these dances in the shadows where the whiskey was, jug was
passing around, you got the folk tales told.  One big lie
after another.
      :  Great.
LOMAX   It's interesting that, of course
this is the scene for fantasizing.  And it's interesting
that in America the fantasy was always rather zany, rather
surrealistic.  How much could you exaggerate reality?  This
was the question.  Then for, if you were a lumberjack you
exaggerated how the, how, how big the trees were or how,
how, how many acres Paul Bunyon's foot could, could cover in
his stride.
     And we have a tall tale hero also emerging in
the Cajun country.  His name is Pascal.  He's, his, his
story is based on the actual physical characteristics of a,
of a real person who was rather testy.  And he was elected
to police his community on something that was impossible.
And so he was always, all he had to chase his victims was
with a bicycle.  So they begin to talk about how fast Pascal
can ride his bicycle.  And then went on from there.  And so
bit by bit a legend, the tall tale or tremendous character
has grown up around this gentleman whose name was Pascal.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.