[*6*]

A. LOMAX
What does that mean?
TEACHER #1
"Haut" means embarassed!  He was speaking French as was
telling us he was too embarrassed to speak French.
A. LOMAX
Could you get that line again that explains-pull back-now.
TEACHER #1
"Haut" means embarassed.  And he was telling us that he was
too embarrassed but in French.
A. LOMAX
What about the hope of this program that you're both full
time in?  Do you think it goning to really work?  Do you
think that it's going to be able to-do you think there are
signs that you're really encouraging the continuance of this
wonderful. . .
TEACHER #1
There are other things that are helping the teaching of
foreign languages in this state besides the program we're
involved with.  The Board of Elementary and Secondary
Education has instituted something called a Regent's Award,
which means that a student who agrees to follow four years
of a college prepatory high school program will receive a
special gold seal on his high school diploma.  One of the
stipulations to get this Regent's Award is that a student
has to pass two years, two consecutive years of a foreign
language in high school.  So right away, we've got an
immediate flocking to foreign languages, either Spanish or
French.  While standard French is not-we're not teaching
Cajun French in the classroom, we all find ways to get it in
their anyway.  So anything that encourages the study of a 
foreign language is going to automatically focus attention
on our Cajun French, simply because it is a Foreign
language.
TEACHER #2
Well I see an attitude change just among young people.  I
think that example of my cousin that I was telling you
about, who considered himself american, and then I look at
some of the kids who are taking French and I ask them for
the reasons why and a lot of them it's "Well, my boyfriend

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.