CAJUN CULTURE VO   -8

prairies.  But there were also French ballads.  We found
scores of songs that match in beauty, Barbara Allen and all
the classic things that have been found in the, in the white
back woods, in Appalachia.  And these songs were intensely
romantic.  Listen to this lady singing the song of a lonely
shepherd is meeting her boy in the far reaches of the
mountains.
     This music suited the prairies.  And the mood
of this song in, infuses the whole of Cajun, the Cajun
romantic songs that were to come after.  These are romantic
people.  They, and they carried the old Western European
theme of the, the enviability, beautiful enviable virginal
girl and all of her, the dangers of her courtship.  Would
her honor be in tact when she was married?  This was a big
point because these were, the property came down through
family lines and so her honor had to be protected in order
to make sure that there were no illegitimate children with
their claims when the heads of the family passed on.  The
small nuclear family was the very sole of the society.  And
they lived in small farms with, they were very litigious
with their boundaries, very fixed.  And the whole point was
would their girls prove out to be virgins when they got
married.  This is, I saw by the, in the papers just the
other day that that's no longer important.  But that's
almost yesterday.  In the immediate past of the Cajun, of
America and the Cajuns there's a whole concern about the
[probity] of young women.  And this is the subject of, main


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.