CAJUNS-LOMAX  -12

with.  And it turned out that Virgil had taken my tune and
made it the base line for his score for the whole of
Louisiana story.  And Louisiana story gives you the feeling
of the Cajun country the way it was when my father and I
went there in 1933.
     At that time the people were quite poor.
this was, it was like back woods southern whites anywhere, 
except they spoke French.  And we have all those FSA
pictures.  They were gaunt and, and tremendous number of
pretty girls.  It was difficult for me to keep my scientific
objectivity, I tell you.  But I, I had less trouble because
they told me that if you went to those dances as a stranger
you might come out and find your tires were slashed because
those guys rode into the dances, stuck their Bowie knives
into the center post of the dance, hung their hat on them.
And just as a signal that strangers might, could shear off
from their lady friends in the evening.  So I stayed away 
from the dances and recorded.
     And amazing music.  We found ballads that go
right back to mid, the days of Medieval France, to those
towers that I, wonderful towers and colonaided rows of trees
that I heard.  Here's one from, sung by [Alita Hofpower],
lovely little Cajun girl, whom I fell half in love with her
as she sang.  It's a song about the. . .and the song can go
on.  The song tells about a girl being carried off by a band
of wicked knights.  And when they tell her she's got to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.