CAJUN   -33
came and New Orleans, and had people that could play music
to go and do some [UNCLEAR] records.  They had invented
these little portable record players.  But they couldn't
sell too many of them in this French speaking area.  So then
they realized that they had, that if they had records of the
area they could sell the records players.  So they got a 
bunch of people to go to New Orleans and, and Nathan was one
of them.  And he said they had people of different areas of
Louisiana, they had blacks and they had other musicians that
played.  And he said s he came back this sort of haunted him
for, for a long, long, long time.  And one day he just
caught his accordian and he started playing this song.  And
it's called the Pine Grove Blues.  And if you know, if you
knew Nathan you knew the Pine Grove Blues.  And if you knew
the Pine Grove Blues you knew Nathan.  And it's, it's one of
the, I guess the first song that had, in Cajun music that
had sort of a, a blues rhythm, blues or rock or whatever you
call it.
AL  What do the words say?
     :  It says home on the grass.  [FRENCH].
And the other fellow responds [FRENCH], which means oh,  my
dear one, where have you gone last night?  And usually the
fiddle would respond I've gone, I've gone to the dance last
night.  And you would say again, oh my loved one, what have
you done last night?  And the respond was you would like to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.