LOMAX-SCRATCH 3   -8

songs of her youth, clapping, taking both parts in, in her
voice.  Clapping this old Louisiana slave time tradition.
She remembered that when she was girl and went to the dances
that's all the music they had.  They didn't have
instruments.  They made their own music.  They called it
[juray].  I swear, I swear on my Lord.  And here we find it
surviving.  There's one group that's recently been. . .I don't
know how to do this.
     . . .in kind of the shadows of this house came
the echoes of this truly ancient African tradition.  When it
was really aculturated it lost its singing base and, but the
blacks incorporated the same syncopated highly percussive
dance style when they took up the instruments that they
acquired from Europeans, put it right into their violin
playing as if, as, as Canray, another of the Fonteneaus
shows us here.
     This name Fonteneau has unlocked the magic
key in our story.  The local historian, [Braseau], told me
that the key area in Louisiana of the emergence of this
style was in the northwest, here near, as you see on the
map, here near, between [Mammu] and [Real Platt].  This area
was settled by French speaking black and white half bread
[Choctaws] from Alabama cashiered here after the British
took over that area.  And it was in this area that black,
white and Indian got together to make the new music.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.