8

04 : 15 . 24 . 76

We might talk a little bit about some of
the songs he sings.  [One of the best of 
Frank's songs is a famous English ballad 
called  'The wife wraped in the weather
skin' .]  Now the mountaineers had their 
trouble with women like every other of
every human group and this lady was
very much of a shrew and she kept talking
back to her husband as you weren't supposed
to do in the back woods.  In the backwoods
the rule was A woman served a man at table,
served until he had finished and then the 
chldren sat and ate what was left.  Now
that may seem very barbarous but actually
the man was the protector of the family and
they had to get him fed and had to make him
ready because he had to be ready for 
action.

The man walked ahead down the mountain 
trail carrying his rifle at the ready . ,
The woman walked back of him carrying all
the burdens  .  This was understood by 
everybody because they needed that man
there with that rifle to protect themselves
from maybe attacks by Indians or outlaws
and if you didn't know that rule, you
didn't understand the mountains, so anyway
this lady, [the heroine in this ballad was a
bit obstreperous so they have a comic song
of how her husband went out and skinned and
sheep and wrapped it around her, instead of 
beating on his lady, he beat on the 
sheepskin, so when her relatives complained
he had a good alibi and all these people as
you see then they listen to the song . find

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.