ROLL 1    13
[*Baggage "It didn't weigh a thing" [?] to [T??nt] bag*]

the bow of them strings, hell would
break loose in that school house."

That is the effect of music on a 
musical people and that is one of
the things that is so often
forgotten about this, all of these
folk tradtion. Now these Scotch
Irish Norse presbyterians didn't 
have a knowledge of symphony or
Michelangelo or anything but they 
were very very artistically inclined
and they had the whole heritage of
Celtic and British tunes in their
head and that was the invisible
baggage that they carried on their
trails up on the mountains, it
didn't weigh a thing, but when they
got to where they were, it made a
wonderful bower of music for them to 
live in.
[*IN*]

They had the great English ballads,
that we have now realised are
the..one of the great human
achievements, they have a lyric
tradition that went back to
Elizabethan and with lyrics that are
quite the equal of the best lyric
poets in Elizabethan days.

(Singing)  "Black is the colour of my true
loves hair.
Her cheeks are like the rosey fair.
[*part of collage to open [?]*]
[*IN*]


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.