CAJUN CULTURE VO   -20

Ardoins].  They were the real ancestors of the people who
are, gave rise to this music that we know.  And it was in
this melting pot that black, Indian and French, white-French
culture came together to make this new music and the new
sound began to emerge.
     And here all [UNCLEAR]
     :  Yes.
 LOMAX  [Oradoir Second, Fonteneau,]
depending on [UNCLEAR].  And a visit to here, Fonteneau's
cousin, and hear her reminiscences about the dances that she
went to.  When I listened to her I was reminded of the, an
amazing courting experience I had in Louisiana.  In the dark
of the night some black kids took me to a church where they
sat, three of them sat down and began to sing in this way.
In the meantime others were circling the church with typical
sliding African steps.  The sound at that time, I didn't
realize was African.  But as I later discovered a parallel
for in Georgia in the early black shouts.  And this is the,
this ist he music that comes from people who've lost, who,
who can make drums out of their clap, clapping, and foot
beating.  And it's a primordial African style  that comes
right straight out of the ancestry, the ancestry of the
pygmies.  It's [hawketing], brief phrases.
      This is the background of contemporary, of
the music that [Doristene] was remembering, was the music,
the music of the [Duray] in her youth.  What she's hearing
we see now performed by three young men sitting on the porch

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.