LOMAX

PAGE 86

A (continued)
All this they got from the Indians.

[*Scots defeat of Indians*]
But these Scots were avid learners.  They, 
they were literate.  They most of them read the 
Bible and ah, they ah, quickly absorbed the, 
the way of life that the Indians had 
developed there.  And immediately in their 
avaricious exploratory Norse aggressive way, 
began to push the Indians.  And ah, in a 
hundred years they had broken the power of 
these very very well organised ah, ah, native 
American groups and had grabbed off all their 
land.

Ah, one of the amazing things that happened 
there was that ah, ah, when the British began 
to resist American move for freedom, it was 
the mountaineers that first beat them in ah 
the battle of Kings Mountain - did I tell 
this before?  I think I did.  Yeah. - Um...

The way these people sang, the way they ah 
- the singing tradition of north west Europe 
that these people carried was focused on 
text, on lyricism and on single melodic 
lines.  This was - 

DIRECTION

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.