BARRY ANCELET   -8

      I had, I had quite few interesting experience
up, experiences up in Nova Scotia that we don't have here in
Louisiana, and it's almost a shame.  I went to buy a
hamburger at the A&W stand there in Moncton and I was with a
bunch of French speaking people, friends.  So when I turned
around from talking to them and I looked at the fellow and I
said [FRENCH] [hamburger and Coke] and it, you know, if you
went to New York or Chicago or Los Angeles they would
understand what you wanted if you were at an A&W stand and
you said [FRENCH] [hamburger and Coke.]  And he looked me
right in the eye and he said parley, speak white.  I don't
parlez vous that shit.  And nobody ever told me that here in
Louisiana, you know.  The, we don't have the cultural and
linguisitic conflict, you know, butting heads here.  We
don't have that.  Because here in Louisiana where the Cajuns
settled they were so isolated from everybody else they were
up, they were to themselves.  And they did that on purpose
when they, when they began arriving in New Orleans, the
Spanish governor said you're welcome to stay in Lousiana,
but not here, go west and go where you won't be any trouble.
He was trying to populate his colony as a buffer zone
between America and, and Mexico, you know.  And he wanted to
spread out as many people as he could throughout the whole
thing.  But that, that suited their purposes perfectly.
They were delighted with that.  They just went out, out here

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.