LOMAX
PAGE 193

A  (continued)
Because what I see is the possibility of
almost renewal of this ah ancient Scots Irish
culture now touched and revigorated -
reinvigorated by black influence, almost an
endless ah potential for growth.  Ah, it's
already shown that it could compete with the
entertainment music by creating the whole
country music industry which is almost as
17.20.41.00  powerful as the American pop scene.

But there are many things coming along the
road, films and theatre and cultural
institutions of all kinds, and ah this is a 
resilient ah group of people.  They're not
gonna lie down and let themselves be walked
over and what Ifound in scores and scores of
places and with many many people was not any
theoretical consideration of the problem, but
simply a vigorous making of a new culture.
That ah - making them very happy about living
where they living - where they live - and
makes the mountains into a home for them, and 
even when they're in Detroit or Chicago or
some far place, makes them feel at home there
because they have their mountain cultural
tradition with them wherever they go.
17.21.26.00


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.