LOMAX
PAGE 156

A     (continued)
making ah system of morality.  That is right
across the world, andit's typical ah, of ah
the Scots Irish and of the southern
mountaineers.  So high lonesome is what the - 
is, is the baseline of the material they have
to work with.

Did you ask me a question?  I can't remember - 

Q     Train whistles.

A     Oh yeah.  [CLEARS THROAT]
It was part of that tradition to have
programme music.  The nicest thing I ever, I 
recorded in Ireland was ah, was a foxhunt,
where every single aspect of the foxhunt was
played on the fiddle by an old ah -by a 
lovely ah  tinker fiddler,  named Mickey
Doherty.  And ah, Africa is full of programme
ah music.  They play lion hunts and all kinds
of events on their instruments, and ah these 
two traditions came together in the southern 
mountains, so they play foxhunts on the
fiddle and on the banjo, and when the ah
railroad engine entered up the south as the
chief bringer of change and progress, 
[*PROGRAMME
MUSIC*] 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.