BJ TAPE 26, p. 27

their cars an' doin' all kinda nasty things like they treated, like
they treats colored peoples.  Tearin' up things, just ridin' along, 
just 'cause it's they'n, I mean.  Just 'cause it's they's'n (theirs)
that's what I mean to say.  But you see...
     An' ah, a boy asked me down South there once, a white boy,
we were workin' there, an' ah, he asked me, said, "Well, if the
colored peoples is -- ever take over, the Lawd give 'em to take
over --"  I was readin', showin' to him sumpin' in the Bible; he
liked to read in the Bible wit' me.  He said, "Now when this day
come," he said, "The colored folks gonna treat us like our folks
treated them?"
     I said, "No."  I said, "That's the trouble right now."  That's
jist why that they don't want to, ra, to give up an' come over.
God's gonna bring 'em over.  I said, "Just to show them that we are
just like Him."  See?  We not gonna treat you -- we cain't do it,
'cause we don't do it now.  I said, "Don't you know if the colored
folks wanted to, they could kill up a thousand -- they could kill
millions a colored, ah, white folks in one week's time.  There
wouldn't be another white folk here to fight the earth, to fight
back.  You know that?"  I said, "We are your definite friend."
     An' he said, "How you mean?"
     I said, "Well, suppose all the colored folks does agree
together; God fixes it so that they will agree.  An' go from post
to post, from, from California to, to anywhere, as fer as America
go, anywhere, see?  An' make up agreement.  Take about two months
to do it, or maybe more.  An' just like that man here last night,
diffrunt ones.  An', 'Keep this to yourself:  All you cooks, all
you women cooks an' all you men cooks, at certain time, certain
day[s] -- set that date! Everybody poison them white folks'.  An' all

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.