[*-10-*]
 
the reasons was it was paid money of 
course, they got cash for their families,
otherwise they lived in the kind of
destitution I was talking about earlier,
uncertain day labourer in a fading rural 
economy.
[*05.21.08.01*]

Well Nimrod got 'black lung' you know
through breathing too much coal dust and
when the company gave him a bad time, he
got mad and he made a song about blacklung
and he was in West Virginia at that time
and he got in after Senator Bird of West
Virginia and he picketed Senator Bird in 
Washington with his group.

They told him  "Nimrod you can't picket the
White House." He said "I am not a
picketting the President, I am picketting 
the conditions that we are working under
down there." He said "When they were
through with me, you just go home and wait"
and then Senator Bird came on and according
to Nimrod they had passed the bill and he
got his pension.

Nimrod reminded me of something that
happened very early in my collecting days.
I was in Harlem in 1937 when the union had
just won and I went to the cabin of a
mountain family- I can't remember their
name, what shall I do?
[*05:22:35:03*] 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.