17

A. LOMAX
How did the oil change the country around here, the way of
life?  Did it change the way of life a lot?
EDWIN
Yes sir.  They found out the oil and waterways we had,
changed everybody's life.  In other words, you had these big
refineries come in, there was more money, more pay.  Where
they was able to have better churches, better buildings,
like Lake Charles, for instance, you know.  Everybody
working at the plants, making more money.  I was chief of
police of Westlake for sixteen years.  Those people at
Westlake were all working at the plants.  That's the reason
we got such beautiful buildings, because the people had the
money.
RAMBLER
You could see it grow, right?
EDWIN
Oh yes, oh yes.
A. LOMAX
But the oil roustabout was a pretty rough customer, wasn't
he?
EDWIN
The roustabout was rough because, what I'm saying here, you
can talk to any of the old oilfield workers.  If you couldn't
get it, you couldn't stay.  You'd get out there, and I mean
not a piece of paper or nothin' 'cos old John Richardson the
superintendent of the Union himself would walk on the floor,
he'd fire you on the spot.  Never stop.  He wanted you to
move all time.  At all times.  If you didn't have anything
to do he'd want you in that ditch over there scraping the
ditch 'cos that's where your mud was going around and a lot
of sand would settle at the bottom and you had to clean that
ditch.  But if you couldn't get it you just wouldn't stay,
he'd fire you.  He'd run you off.  You had to work.  And it
was hard work I want to tell you.  And maybe that's the
reason that I'm seventy three and I feel young, because I
worked hard all my life.  And it does you some good if you
work.  Now people tell you if you don't work, you'll live a 
long time.
RAMBLER
Old rockin' chair'll get you too.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.