BARRY ANCELET   -15
And we've spent a century now admiring the persistance of
the British ballads and the Appalachians, in the back woods
of America.  The same thing happened with the French
colonies, the people coming from western France who had long
romantic ballads and wedding songs and loved the fiddle and
the bagpipe, they brought, they brought those dance tunes
with them.  They brought their ballad tunes with them.  And
when I was here in 1934 collecting I, I found many, many
ballads sung unaccompanied, and many fiddlers who played
unaccompanied.
     At the same time though, something had
happened here which happened once and really only in
America, that is that the people got at the media and very
early you Cajuns got it, got onto the commercial records,
just as the mountaineers got onto commercial records, just
as the blacks got onto commercial records with their
Mississippi and their New Orleans music.  And those musics
that have survived.  When I was here there was, there was
Joe [Falcon] and there was the, the first of the [fidedo]
orchestras had already been recorded.
     I want to make one other point about that and
that is that the [fededo] orchestra with violin, accompanied
by, by accordian, by a wind instrument, that's the standard
British, that's the standard European or, orchestra.  Right

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.