5

and said "Erline, your French is too good.  Remember you're
supposed to be a Cajun woman who acts as a maid.  You have
to deform the language so that the people around here will
understand you better".  We just stand there and take this
and sometimes we have to argue with him. . .
TEACHER #1
What he's saying though is true in the sense that she
sounds, she has a French intonation, not a better intonation
or a more educated, but she has a French intonation that is
going to throw people off. . .
A. LOMAX
Tell me, just very succintly, what is Cajun theater and
about it's purpose to help in the support of the Cajun. . .
TEACHER #1
O.k., we're an amateur troupe.  We're all people who work
either in the field of French.  Several of us are teachers,
we are hairdressers, lawyers, goup of people.  Our main
objective is to bring to Cajun people, plays, entertainment
in Cajun French, done by Cajun people and with Cajun themes.
Our main objective is to present plays in Cajun French,
presented by Cajun actors, for Cajun people.  We want to
present themes that people will recognise, situations that
people will recognise and we also want to show people that
by presenting theater in this particular language the Cajun
attitude could possibly change.  Look if it's good enough to 
appear on stage, it's certainly must be good enough to 
speak.  And then by association:  it's good enough to work to
preseve.
A. LOMAX
This is part of the whole contemporary movement to make
Cajun a respectable, accepted language alongside other
languages.
TEACHER #2
I guess it always has been amongst those of us who use it
all the time.  It's just outsiders who come in and are
telling us it's not good enough to be accepted.
A. LOMAX
I thought that there had been a real feeling of shame and 
inferiority about this marvelous culture.  (unintelligible)
TEACHER #1

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.