CAJUN CULTURE VO   -16

     :  Your. . . .
LOMAX  It's ironic that the people who
use, it's ironic that the people whose. . . .let's see.  It's 
ironic that the people who are exclusively Cajun speakers
are the [Homa] Indians.  Those [Muskogian] tribes who took
one look at on rushing white civilization and faded into the
swamps nearly a hundred years ago, became the masters of the
mouth of all of the [Achefilia] bayou, [Lived] richly on
fish and trapping.  And it was, wasn't until oil came along
that anybody really realized they were there.  They had a 
almost totally French-Indian culture.  They sang and talked
French.  And they'd kept their old folk arts alive.  They
have been the suffers in this new environment because they
live right on the edge of the most delicate part of the wet
lands.  And as the oil industry has invaded the wet lands
the Homa and their whole cultures have come into jeopardy.
And do they know it.
     There have been many pitched battles down
there between the Homa fisherman who once were the masters
of the shrimp and the rich fisheries of that area and the
tens and tens of thousands of righteous sports fisherman
who've poured in there.  And also between the Homas and the
oil companies for whom they work over the bringing of salt
water pipelines under this whole delicate wet land.  They
have held up their hand as we must.  Because when this, when
this whole area is handled in the way that industry plans it
it will all disappear with its shrimp, with its crawfish,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.