LOMAX
PAGE 176 
[*MOUNTAINS
(GENERAL)
POL + ECON.*]

A     (continued)
[*16. 18.09*]
And they ah, when they needed schools, they
didn't get school money, and when they needed
roads, they didn't get road money.  So for
almost ah 50 or 60 years, up until the time of
Roosevelt, the mountains were a deprived area.
[*DISCRIM.  VS.
MOUNTAINS 
AFTER
CIVIL WAR  C2)*]
People have accused them of being shiftless
and, and ah, and badly organised, but this was
not the case.  They simply were under the gun.
That happened, that, that was the di - direct
result of the Civil War.

[*16. 18. 36*]
Now another thing happened.  These county seats
were split between Democrats and Republicans
[*MOUNTAIN
FEUDS
+
POLITICS*]
and when the Democrats were in , the Republicans
had a bad time, and vice versa.  And from that
ah came ah many of the mountain feuds.  Ah,
the, the sides were, were armed and they
defended their position with arms, and they
simply shot the other people down.  Ah, Tom
Dooley was a typical ah, ah, ah, wild and
desperate person out of that.  The ah - and
after - So after the Civil War, ah, the, the,
the mountain feuding period arose. 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.