CAJUNS-LOMAX II  -26

accompanyment, which is the typical western European way of
doing things.  And there is a feeling of laughter and more,
more a feeling of laughter and fellowship in the black mardi
gras and, then in the white, where this, there's lots more
kind of aggression and showing off and, and another kind of
emotion.
     And we're going to, this, this is an area
where these two very different cultures have met and merged.
Of course mardi gras is a European thing and the tunes that
the black sing are European tunes.  But the different way
they handle them shows the survival of, and very strong old
different tendancies.  And our story is going to concern how
these two tendancies come together in many ways to form this
new and typical American culture.  American culture is,
America is, is [signally] the continent where the large old
cultural systems of humanity have come together.  One from
the north temperate zone, western Europe, another from the
tropics of Africa, another from Siberia, and the, this is
the three big streams, Amer-Indian, European and African,
and the way they've laced together and combined and mixed
their heritages has produce what's new here in the largest
sense.  Naturally you, the European sense is the dominant
one, is the, is always in the, most always in the
foreground.  But jazz, the blues, ragtime, these are things
that are strongly African.  Many of our design things that,
[names on the land] are Europe or, or Indian.  And we're

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.