There is a Nathan Hicks in there.

MAN  Shall we break for lunch.
(Alan looking at dulcimer & playing)  
LOMAX  Looking at Stanley looking at his own
playing of the dulcimer.  I wonder whether
he sees what it is.  It is an outline of a 
woman lying on her back and their hearts
lie there.  I think they put those hearts
there because the machine, the little
instrument is often used in playing love
songs.  Stanley of course uses it in the
mountain style to play dance tunes, but I
think that is quite mountainey and probably
not the way the instrument was used in
Northern Europe where it comes from.  My
guess is it is part of the Norse equipment
that came there with the Scots-Irish so
called into the mountains because it is
most frequent in Scandinavia and Northern
Germany.  It is not as common in the 
mountains as the banjo by any sort but it
is the same kind of an instrument because
it has one string that you play most of the
tunes on and the rest of it is a drone so
normally it is used to accompany songs and 
to play the tune over between verses
because that was the way that instruments
were largely used on the frontier.
Somebody played the tune on the fiddle or
dulcimer or whatever, as you sang it and
then played it again in between verses.
there were lots of time, the longer the
music lasted, the better if you could sing
the song over from stanza to stanza with
this nice legato, mournful sounding of this

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.