MICHEL DOUCET   -18

different style that they didn't have here.  So what I did
is like put in my mind that if I'm going to play this music
I'm going to have to learn it.  And the thing about it is I
couldn't learn from one person because I had to learn all
the styles.  And amazing thing about Cajun music is it,
Arcadians are people that came from France.  The ingredient
that I found most intriguing, most exotic about it that I
felt the deepest down in me was the blues.
     And that, that led me to one of the greatest
musicians that I've even known, Canray Fontenot from
[Welsh], you know.  Canray Fontenot, he was there at the
right time in the right place.  He comes from a family of
musicians.  His father, [Norcadon], as he was called, was a
first class accordian player, the same league as [Armaday]
[UNCLEAR].  But with [UNCLEAR], he had strong values and 
virtues.  And it was his idea that when he died he didn't
want to leave anything here, pictures nor music.  So when he
died he just, Canray was the only one that carried that
sound on to us.  Canray portrays in his style, I guess
something that nobody else does because he can play
Louisiana blues, Louisiana jazz, Louisiana French, Cajun
French, Caribbean French, all of that in one song through
his fingers.  So with studying from Canray a little bit,
like I [UNCLEAR] a little bit of that.  Another. . .

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.