[*TALES*] 

LOMAX
PAGE 102 

A     (continued) 
And that's what ah the Scots-Irish folk had
in abundance.  I remember in the Hebrides
I met a man whose stories lasted for 3 days
and nights.  And if you went there you, you began
one, you had to stay there until he finished. 
That was the good manners of the, of the old
days of ah, the - at the dawn of time in
Europe. 

But in the mountains, all this was continued,
but the stories got shorter, they had to, and
ah, and gradually over time, ah, ah, the
American anecdotes have been reduced to the 
one-liner.  But in the days of the mountains,
the stories might last for 10 or 15 minutes 
or an hour, and every - many fathers, many
parents, many grandmothers, ah, raised their 
children on these tales. 

Ah, there were stories about um animals, ah,
about snakes or some, some ah imaginary 
animals that were simply made up.  Others,
travellers' stories, because the traveller
coming back could never be checked up on, so
he could tell about, about hoopsnakes that 
could roll and put their stinger into the - 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.