REVON REED   -7

animal, you know.  And one of them said that's a dead mule,
he said.  The other one said no, he says that's a donkey, he
says.  So while they was arguing a lieutenant came by.  They
said lieutenant, what is this, that dead animal there?  He
looked at that dead animal awhile.  He says, well, he says,
according to the bible he said I'd say an ass.  He said I
want you to bury it.  Well they started digging a hole to
bury the old thing, you know.  And a WAC past by and she
said hey, soldiers, what are you doing, digging a foxhole?
One of them turned around, no, he said, not according to the
bible.  He say. . . .[LAUGHS]. . .oh, let's see, it was a, what
did. . .yeah.
     A man [UNCLEAR] springs, he was going to,
across the river, you know, on some business, you know.  So
when he got to the chapel, river bridge, there was a man
taking his clothes off, you know, on the bridge.  He said
hey, fellow, he says what are you intending to do anyway?
He say I want to drown myself, he says.  Drown yourself?
What's the matter?  He says you nuts?  He says you don't
have no reason to commit suicide.  No reason to commit
suicide?  He says the [UNCLEAR] aren't worth living for
anymore.  So the guy who was telling me that said, well he
said, I just left him to discuss the matter and I went on my
business.  He says when I pass back, he says to go back to
town, he says I pass on the bridge, he was still [UNCLEAR]
on the bridge, even the cop.  He said you know something?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.