ROLL 2                   13

the world was turned up side down
for the first time authority was,
the old lines of authority were 
knocked to pieces, the old 
aristocrat system was out, the old
system of the established church was 
out and people from everywhere were
exactly equal.  Every jug stood on
its own bottom, it might mean that
somebody that you had been able to
turn down the week before you
couldn't put down anymore, you were
just as good as you were and this
was not only a delight it was also a 
challenge.

[*02:19:05:08*]
The world was really crazy, suddenly 
there was no order and this kind of 
disorder which was both painful and
delightful is reflected in the this
kind of surrealistic poem that were
the absolute mainstay of the early
days of the frontier in the early 
C19th.  Davey Crocket was completly
           .  I can read you some Davey 
Crocket if you like?  Davey Crocket
who was the boaster of the frontier, 
you will have to wait, I don't know
just where it is.
[*02:19:39:23*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.