3

Wednesday and Saturdays at ten o'clock in the morning. They
changed our name from "Hackberry Ramblers" to "Riverside
Ramblers", because of the fact that Montgomery-Ward was
selling a tire that was known as the "RIverside Rambler".
So when we'd go record, all the Cajun numbers that we'd
record would use the name Hackberry Ramblers, and on
anything that was sung in English, that was called the
Riverside Ramblers.

A. LOMAX

What's the first song that you're going to do for us?

LUDERIN

Well, would you want this "Big Texas"? Of course, "Big
Texas" is a number that Hank Williams used to record his
"Jambalaya", make up the words to. So what we'll do is play
"Jambalaya" and then go into "Big Texas" to sort of show you
the difference there.

(music)

A. LOMAX

What are the words of "Grand Texas"? What do they say?

LUDERIN

It's kind of a love affair. It's about a lady, a girlfriend
that left her boyfriend, I guess, put it that way. Had to
go to Big Texas. Left him all alone. One of these love
stories, I guess you could tell that, Alan. He left her all
alone and hoping that she'd come back, as far as I can
relate these words, you know, Big Texas.

A. LOMAX

I never have been in a country where women left men all the
time and men never left women, what's the story on that
anyway?

LUDERIN

I don't know how to explain that, maybe Edwin can help me
out on that

EDWIN

In olden days, there was not much people leavin' anybody.
Very seldom you'd see a lady leavin' her husband. In olden

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.