ROLL 1
3

wilderness trail, Walker who opened 
up the Cumberland Gap was one of 
them, Severe who was the first  
Governor of the first independent 
American state, the state of Wytoga, 
 a Scoth Irishman.  They were poor 
folk and they were hardy, they were 
aggressive and they were Presbetrian 
to the core.  Their whole social 
organisation was around the Kirk.  
Though they were highly moral and 
imposed very severe rules on 
themselves and their children.  A 
curious combination of rowdiness and 
morality characterised them and one 
of the remembered their very
important role in the American
Revolution, he said, "My folks came 
over here to help to subdue 
Americans but when we learned that 
the English were imposing on the 
colonists, well we just swapped 
sides and we licked the British at 
the battle of Kings Mountain, which 
was true.  Well when that happened, 
while the Scoth Irish irregulars 
were occupied in that way, the 
Cherokees attacked their farms, 
motivated by British money and when 
the pioneers heard this they turned 
on the Cherokees with fury and there 
was carnage that was almost 
unequalled in the bloody history of 
the American frontier.  They swooped

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.