BARRY ANCELET   -32
with the festival and things like that were, was trying to
put Cajun music and Cajun culture in general in a setting
that was attractive to, to just general culture, general
folks, young folks especially.  And we were, we were
deliberately trying to make heros of people like Dewey
Balfar, Bois Sec Ardoir and Canray Fontenot and, and Nathan
[Abshire].  And the festival has been one of the single most
successful parts of the, the French revival movement in
Louisiana.  It's, it's attracted a whole group of young
musicians who now, who now have chosen to play that music,
their own music from their own backyard instead of imitating
Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra and, and whoever else, you
know, and Hank Williams, Jr.  Those are all fine musics but
they're not ours.  And it was an, an important message in
the festival, was to take, take a look at your own backyard.
Not to say that you have to but it's available.  And there,
there are people who live right here who play beautiful
music.  And it's a magnificant stuff.  And it deserves
attention.  And so by the, by the fifth festival in 1978,
out of 22 groups that were invited to per, perform at the
festival, 8 of those 22 groups were entirel composed of
musicians under 30.  And 2 of those 8 were entirely composed
of musicians under 20.  So there was, there was all,
suddenly a whole cadre of, of very young musicians.  And
it's a very lively thing.  It's not at all, it's too early

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.