6.

certain lonely place which the poor girl 
did and he came up and offered her, to get 
off her horse and offered her a drink of 
whisky and when she lifted the bottle up 
to her mouth he stuffed his scarf down her 
throat and Anne rushed out of hiding and 
stabbed Laura in the belly a number of 
times, aiming not only to kill Laura but to 
kill the child that she was carrying,  then 
these two miscreants were frightened and 
they tried to bury Laura and they dug the 
grave too shallow and somewhere in these 
tapes they tell in a most terrifying way 
about the rain coming along and washing the 
dirt off the shallow grave and someone 
passing very soon afterwards, saw the 
scarlet scarf that Laura had been killed 
with and they knew that Tom had something 
to do with it,  arrested him and he stoutly 
took credit for the whole thing, the blame, 
the blame I should have said, Tom took the 
blame for the whole thing and everybody 
thought he was shielding Anne but he stuck 
to his story and the song was one of the 
techniques he used to protect the 
women he loved, that is the romantic part 
of the story so he made the song in jail ,
played the banjo,  sang it in jail and 
supposedly sang it on the way to his 
execution.

This is a song that was known really only 
in this district before Frank came along 
and then I came along and got it off Frank 
and then Kingston Trio came along and got

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.