LOMAX 
PAGE 131
A (continued)
You don't need too many children in that part
of the world. Inthe tropics you need all the
children you can get. Ah-
[*13.17.00.00*]
Q Why?
A Because the kind of agricultural system that 
you have there needs a lot of hands, and, and
their um parents need their, their children to
look after them when they're old. And ah, age
is venerated and ah, a father or - and a 
mother - look forward to having lots of support
when they're old from their children, so lots
of children are, are important. And the - of
course the ah - in Africa, Af - Africans were
expanding very rapidly across the continent:
Africa was filled up in 2000 years, this huge
territory, by people who were, who were - 
there was a population explosion and fertility
was valued and - so, that's a little bit out 
of - that's the anthropological theory. 
[*13.17.52.00*]
But, but the reserve of the, the stiffened
trunk is a definite sign of, of, of, - let's
not say repression but of restraint, and the 
rolling pelvis is ah, is the African heritage
out of, out of a, ah, world in which fertility

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.