LOMAX
PAGE 155 

A     (continued) 
[*BANJO
claw-hammer.*]
Sometimes this ah thumbnail of the index finger 
and sometimes the middle finger, and sometimes 
the whole of the finger's brushed down in the
frailing stroke, while the thumb is always 
picking up again on the ah, ah on the ah top
drone string.  That's the claw hammering style
which is the baseline for, for most banjo
playing.  In some cases you also are um 
picking the first string against the top
string, so that you have 2 drones going at one 
time, 2 high drones, and making the music ah 
[*HIGH DRONE
OF intr   1*]
- giving the music a kind of a, a continual
brilliance.  And this is fascinating since ah
since high pitch is the very cynosure of ah
of the high lonesome style that ah was born
in ah, ah in, in - ah, in Ireland.  I think it
was exaggerated and was developed to its peak 
in ah - among the Scots Irish, because of the
severe tensions that their morality um - 
because of the - because of the ah . . .  

[*High lonesome
style
of intr.  1*] 
Well the high lonesome style, which means ah
singing in a high pitched voice with a good
deal of nasality, a lot of embellishment, is
a, a - is a part of a tradition which always 
is associated with ah, with a very tense 
[*Nasality*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.