[*1*]

Tape 1531, Michael Doucet

Well, thanks to Dennis' fond wife Gladys, we're able here to
do a little session this afternoon.   (speaks in French to
the others)    I guess the first time that I really noticed
Dennis' and Sady, because they weren't playing that many
dances during the seventies, was during the seventies at the
Jazz and Heritage Festival.   I guess it was 1973, was the
first time that I saw them on stage.   I was playing fiddle
and I'd never heard Cajun fiddle like that before still
played and I was just thoroughly amazed.   I went down and
talked to Sady and Dennis and I think that the song that got
me was "Adieu Rosa",  after all that time.   And then from
that time I tried to come here as often as I could though,
as Dennis will tell you, not as often as I should, and to
play with him and to learn how play with Mr. Sady Courville,
because their style is the most unique style of fiddle
playing that is in existence here in Louisiana.   It's a
style that predates accordion.   When a fiddle was playing
"second" he wasn't second to accordion, he was a second to a
fiddle, which means he had to know the tune and had to know
how to play.   And all these tunes came from the inherent
strings, not just accordion, not just a stomach spinet organ
making sounds it was from just your fingers and your
feelings.    And the kind of feelings that I get from Dennis
and Sady are the kind of feelings that go back long before
Louisiana was ever a state, before the Acadians arrived in
Arcadie, perhaps from a time when the Acadians first
assembled together in France. ItÂ´s a sound that just
pierces right through you. And the thing about Sady and
Dennis, as long as I've been knowing them, they've been
playing these songs as perfectly as the first time they
recorded that I could hear them in 1928 as they do in 1985.
[*1707*]

A. LOMAX
Mike, what do you think is the message of that music for the
young people?   Do the young people really get that message
now?

M. DOUCET
[*1715*]
No.   That's what's really-that's what's really a fallacy.
In this age of computers and rock stars, you don't hear this
anymore.   Because people, they say "Well, this music is
different.   It's not the kind of Cajun music we're used to
hearing" and that's the main point, it's the music that made
Cajun music of now.   90% of the Cajun repertoire that people
play nowadays is what Dennis and Sady played sixty-seventy
years ago, and the point to all that is: the intricacies of
the music, like if Dennis is going to make a scratch in a
certain point, he's been making that scratch for seventy
years in that certain place and that's where that scratch
belongs.   And it's just like a whole way to do it. He's

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.