CAJUNS-LOMAX  -11

the Cajun music for the library of Congress, the first song
that was sung to us was a cowboy song, a version of my old,
father's old favorite, Come a ty yi yippie, yippie yea,
yippie yea, come a ty yi yippie, yippie yea.  Oh we hung and
hollered on what. . . oh, it's cloudy in the west and a lookin'
like rain and the damned old slicker's in the wagon again.
Come a ty yi yippie, yippie --  to have this coming from a 
Frenchman was absolutely strange for us Texans.  And we
probed deeper.  And they gave us a wonderful French cowboy
song, a song which has a, kind of a meloncholy blues quality
to it.  [PHOENTIC]  Je man de, je man de, et je sois fait je
fan.  Le soleil cou je suis le noir blan mason.  Bye-bye
jolie Brown, bye-bye Jolie Brown.  Cette tu pa la blond de
sarjan pas le brown.  Au le j'an crowlie san tu jeur da
chemais, en de jeur dans chemais rasha chez en ma fair.
Avec le jeur de plum beau, il la farai a la bouche.  San tu
jeur dan ches mere rasha chez en ma fair.  Which means the
man's riding into town, he's got a jug on his, jug on the
palm of his saddle and his fist in his pocket.  He's coming
to town looking for trouble.  If that didn't sound like a 
Western I don't know what does. 
     Well, Virgil Thompson was later, I asked him
to write the score for the, what famous [Flaherty] picture
about, called Louisiana story.  And I went to the theater
when, that evening he, in New York to see it.  And sitting
there in the dark I heard a tune that I was very familiar

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.