[*GENERAL*]
LOMAX
PAGE 152 

A     (continued)
[*GUITAR-STYLE*]
So that there was melody being played with
one hand and very exciting pedal base with the
other.  At the same time the, the left hand
was choking exciting chords down - up and down
the neck of the guitar, and the base was
being made into - being choked back so it had 
a kind of a, a dull thwacking sound, instead 
of the ringing sound that the string would
normally give. All of which made again the
guitar into a kind of, kind of a strong drum.
Played like a banjo in a sense.  And ah, that
was what mountaineers did with ah, with the
black jazz guitar style.  Fascinating. 

Um, always a change.  Ah, when ah they went the
next step, in Texas, now these are, these are
the southern mountaineers, these are the Scots
Irish gone clear west and living in the
foothills of Texas and the backwoods of
Louisiana.  What happened out there with the
um, with the new kind of ah swinging country
music of the, of the 40s, they added
electrification, ah, and they added ah the
string base at that time in those ah - Bob
Wills and his Texas Playboys, in that period 
of, of, of the growth of this music. 




Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.