-4-

very poisonous and many people died as a 
result.   The whole thing was utterly
horrible.    Literally hundreds of people 
were sent to the penitentiary.   There were
so many people on trial in some of the 
county seats that they couldn't even get in
the court room, they were standing in line,
just to be tried in these poor counties.
You really have no idea of the hardship
that was worked on these folks and when you
come down to it, they were continuing an 
enormously clever adaptation because they
turned these crops which were basically
unmarketable into something not only sound
economically speaking but made it possible
for people to even live in these northern
lattitudes.   Remember therewere no stoves 
in those places.    There wasn't any heating.

[*05 . 08 . 14 . 20*]
I remember a man told me and this is about 
ballads, he said "When I was raised in 
Virginia, we were in a little old log hut
an dyou could look on the floor and see the
chickens walking around in the crack,
there were cracks in the floor and in the
winter time the wind came up there
something terrible.   How the singing was,
"We all sat around the fire and sang and
the one that was singing the song got to 
sit closest to the fire" so that is why I 
learned songs so good when I was a 
little boy, so I could get in there close
in the warm while I sang and that was the
way, that was how important these songs
were to people and a great art was
transmitted in this group.    The art of

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.