CAJUNS-LOMAX   -25

is go. . . .with this kind of sorrow in it that we've been
hearing about.  This is, you might call the raunchy blues
quality.  [Amadee's] voice coos.  He gives these hollers,
these little yipes.  But they said about him that he was
totally irresistable in his day, utterly irresistable.  And
we, it was his tragedy which lies at the bases, at the
bottom of this whole story.
     I'm not doing this well.  I hadn't really
thought. . . .[END OF RECORDING, CHANGE TAPE]

LOMAX  Not a great opening.
     As you move around on mardi gras morning in
southwest Louisiana you run into two very different kinds of
mardi gras.  One that is celebrated by the so called white
Cajuns and another by the black Cajun communities which have
dwelt here on this praries as neighbors, sometimes friendly
and sometimes oppressively for a hundred and fifty years or
more, two hundred years.  And we can see differences between
the two kinds of mardi gras.  One stemming from a French
background and one from a, a more African one.  The thing
that you notice about the black mardi gras immediately is a,
is a, is there's more a groupie feeling.  People are
relating to each other more.  They're, they're singing, the
whole crews are singing together in a song, whereas in the
Cajun mardi gras there's a solo singer with an

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.