Time Code:
Tape:  1318  p. 2
(Carl) and preserving not only a sense of ethnic identity,
but also a sense of ethnic affinity with their fellow Acadi
who now pursue a different life-style in this part of
Louisiana.  You also find that same affinity between the
Acadians of whatever part of South Louisiana, and the
Acadians that remained up in the maritime provinces of
Canada.
AL:  They were woods people and they were farmers--and they
were French peasants, and conservative Catholics--and they
loved to eat, and they also loved to have their fun, their
fetes.
Carl:  That's right.  In fact, many of the distinguishing
features of modern Acadian society--the family of course
remains the basic glue which holds a society together, they
remain very very strong familial ties among Acadians--there
also remains a very strong attachment to the land, this is
very typically French.  The French attachment to their home
villages was perhaps the major cause of France's failure as
a colonial power.  French simply refuse to leave the
farmstead.  The Acadians have also always been known fo
their industriousness, and have always worked extremely har
throughout the week.  When the weekend comes, however, they
have always enjoyed diversions of whatever sort, music or
get togethers, or whatever.  Unlike the residents of protes
America, they have never felt guilty about their good times
afterwards.  All of these things, I think, remain hallmarks
of the Acadian society and help to distinguish it from 
mainstream America.
(end of tape 1318)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.