Time Code:
Tape:  1317  p. 6
(Carl) society in early Louisiana.  The upper class was
occupied by Creole and American planters, who became the
real economic kingpins in the area.  These people moved
into the area and began buying up the small plots of land
and consolidating them into plantations.  In order to survi
in the area, many Acadians had to adopt this plantation
mentality, and many of them rose to the position of the planter
in this part of Louisiana, the area which ultimately became
the Sugar Belt, that's this part of Louisiana.  The Acadian
that were upwardly mobile crossed not only class boundaries
but cultural boundaries.  Those moving upward moved into
white Creole society.  Creoles, historically speaking, are
persons who are descendants of French or Spanish settlers.
There are persons born in Louisiana. The other Acadians,
those that refused to become part of the plantation system,
were forced to migrate outward.  There was a large-scale
migration of Acadians down into LaForsche(?) parrish, and
down into the Terribonne(?) areas.  These were less desirab
lands, because they were more swampy and harder to clear--
more isolated and less accessible to the markets in New
Orleans and elsewhere.  This led to a growing diversity
within the Acadian community itself.  I mentioned the other
groups with which the Acadians came into contact in this
area.  There were other groups living side by side with the
Acadians in the prairie areas, in Southwestern Louisiana.
In the St. Martinville area, along Bayoutache (?) for
example, there were fairly large numbers of Creoles, also

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.