ROLL 1
8 

anything else in the anti-villain literature. 

INTERVIEWER 
Who did the black fiddlers learn from? 

MAN
[*01:11.32:01*]
 They learned from their masters and 
the foremen on the plantation and 
very early they already their kind 
of square dance, the Virginia Reel 
is a black version of the square 
dance, a good deal livelier than the 
somewhat more sober ____ dances and 
they adapted this reel and jig to a 
far more sophisticated stlye, I mean 
far more _________ and jigging, they 
synced them up, you know they synced 
them up and they also played very 
heavily bowed rythmic fiddle and one 
of the things I found on this trip 
was a black fiddler and his banjo 
playing brother who played the tunes 
as you will see in the style that 
really pre-dates modern music in 
many ways. 

[*01:12:25:16*]
 They knew the early version of Old 
Joe Clark and the knew the early 
version of Lychburg 
Town, (singing) . . Going down town, 
going down town, going down the 
Lychburg town to sell my tobacco 
down.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.