LOMAX
PAGE 114

A (continued)
When I asked, it was simply ah: Well if we, if
you go to the dance there's going to be
trouble. Usually when there was a dance,
someone might be killed. I didn't understand
the reason for that then, but the reason was
that the dances in the old days, you see,
took place in these little mountain valleys,
neighbourhoods, ah, country districts that were
basically, ah, the home of a few connected
families, where everybody knew everyone else.
So that women were perfectly secure against
molestation there, and the family knew who was
dancing with who and could predict and control
the results. And that's what the dance was for
after all, to get the girls married, and to
make sure that the women had a good time at the
[*12.17.41..*] end of the hard year of farmwork.

So, ah, as roads came in, as communications
improved, those neighbourhood lines were broken
down. Strangers appeared at the dance, and I
talked to one person on this trip,ah, that told
me an extraordinary story, that her son had
actually killed 2 men at the neighbourhood
dance that she had tried to revive, and she'd
given up because this had happened.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.