LOMAX INTERVIEW

ROLL [3] [*4*]
[3:01:00:19]

INT
What is that?

MAN
Its the report of the death penalty.

INT
Tell me about that.

MAN
I refer to 1 o'clock, the guard being
[*4:01:28:26*]
formed in a square, the condemned was led
forth by the sheriff and some associates
and with a smile upon his features, took
his stand upon the cart, which was his
open coffin beside his sister and his
brother-in-law. The procession moves
forward through the streets accompanied by
large crowds, male and female white and
black, mostly being in carriages and many
horse back and on foot. At the gallows
throngs of people were already assembled,
the number of females being almost equal to
that of the males.

[*4:02:15:07*]
I wonder if it mentions the song in here.

This is the story of Tome Dooley's
execution, May 2nd 1868. Now the song is a 
record of a true event. Tom Dooley was a
wild young buck. a veteran of the civil war
and he came back home and apparently he had
a hard time settling down. He was very
handsome and he ran with many women as the
ballad pioneer tells us and he ended

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.