Lomax: Were the fights just with fists, or....?

Calum: Oh yes, fists, oh yes.

Lomax: No knives.

Calum: Oh no, that would have been quite out of line,
altogether. But I remember ... it will give you an idea of
the spirit of these times...I remember Reverend Dr. Neil Ross,
who was a Skye man telling me that there was a young man in
their own place, he was going to the market this day,, tothe
fair as they called it. And the ambition of lots of these
young fellows just when they were coming out was to have a
good fight, just to prove their strength. And he said, "I'm
going to the market day today," he said, "And I'm going to
have a fight supposing nothing came home of me except my two
braces." See, when young fellows feel their strength coming
on, they eant to use if very often. But in that respect,
they're getting much more sensible nowadays.

Lomax: Tell me, what about courtship ? At what age did young
fellows and girls begin to look at each other ?

Calum: O I don't think that's ever changed very much !

Lomax: Well, it varies in different places. Was it that you
could have your sweetheart by the time you were twelve or ...?

Calum: Oh yes, when you're at school you begin to take a fancy
to this one and that one, and you...

Lomax: How did courtship go on in Barra when you were a boy ?
When did courting couples get a chance to see each other ?

Calum: When you got to be 16 or 18 you were allowed to go
about with a girl without being chastised.

Lomax: But you'd be chastised before ?

Calum: Oh well, when you were 14 or so you'd be chastised
for winking at a girl.

Lomax: But when you were sixteen, there were dances--- or what
would there be ?

Calum: Oh, well, yes, you'd take them to the dances and walk
home with them, and the like of that, and you were allowed, 
perhaps, to stay out a little later at night and ...

Lomax: How late at night would that be ?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.