[*5*] 

the British "riding coat", and that kind of borrowing from
other languages has been going on as long as French has been
spoken.  That's why French exists, it's a mixture of
borrowed languages.  But I think that it's just as
interesting that in English, we turn around and use words-as
a child, I grew up. . .when I was little I was I'm sure
fifteen years old before I realized that "cocombe" was a
French word.  My mother always, she'd say "look, cut up some
cocombes for the salad" or she'd take same old pots and 
pans-"Here, go put this in the 'cabin'".  Or we'd go to
church and she'd give me some money to put in the "catte", 
when they passed the "catte".  Or she says "I'm gonna brush
your hair, I'm gonna redo you're "quoettes".  And they were
words that expressed -- It was a perfectly good reality that 
also fit into the English language.
A. LOMAX
What about the little boy who asked to speak French who said
(french phrase), do you remember that?
TEACHER #1
Well, this is examples of kids- they don't even realize to
what extent their everyday use of English is influenced by 
the French language.  I had a little boy-and I have a habit
of always speaking French to my kids on the schoolground and 
I had one little boy and he came up to talk to me and I said
something-I forgot what it was in French, I might have told
him to go pick up a ball or something and he looked at me
and said "Mais Mademoiselle, I don't speak French!".  But
the classic was that little boy-we were going down to Church
Point-well, to do a film on a little boy, Carl-God, I forgot
his name.
TEACHER #2
Fruge?
TEACHER #1
No, it wasn't Fruge, but anyway, he was a very good
accordion player, seven or eight years old, and he was
perfect for this docu-drama that we were going to do about a 
little boy who wanted to learn how to play the accordion
like his daddy and his grnadfather.  So, we explained to him
what he had to do, we let him play the accordion and he was
going to be perfect for the part, but then we said "Carl,
you're going to have to say a few words in French" and he 
said "Oh no, I don't want to do that".  We said "Carl, why
not?  Your mama speaks French.  Your daddy-we've heard you
say a few words and you understand don't you?"  And he kind
of put his head down and said "No, I'm too haut (sp?) to
speak French!"

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.