CAJUN   -30
and his mama comes to the bars of the prison with her hands
on her [heads], tears in her eyes, and crying and saying, my
dear son, you have been sentenced for the rest of your life.
And he, he then returns and say mama, pray for your son.
Pray for the soul of your son.  Save his soul from the hell,
from the flames of hell.  And it's beautiful.  And there was
nothing that made me feel better the other day, we were on a 
workshop,  [UNCLEAR] and I, and [Kendra] plays this version
of it which is beautiful.  I wish, I wanted to so much to
play it like Kendra does but I never will be able to.  And
we were in the workshop and he said, somebody asked him to
play the same song.  He said I can't play it like Douglas
but I liked it so much that I decided I would play it, my
own version of it.  And I felt like I wanted to get up and,
and catch him, hug him, because I'm in the same boat he was 
in, I can't play it like Kendra but I play my version of it
and it means as much to me as it did to Kendra or as it did
to Douglas.
AL  Now, tell us a little about [Julie
Blonde], is that too much to ask?
     :  No.  Julie Blonde.  [Jolie Blang] is, is,
I guess one of the most, the standard, it, it was said many
times that it was, it was the Cajun anthem.  Everybody knows
Jolie Blang.
AL  What's the meaning of it?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.