[*7*]

the word differs from the standard French to the Cajun 
French we explain what both words are.  Where we can we 
explain why the Cajun word is different or where we think it 
comes from.  We try to make the students understand is that 
whatever French they are using is fine as long as it is 
understood by the person with whom they are communicating.  
I have a lot of ego gratification which comes to me in the 
form of comments form parents and grandparents who come to 
open houses and to meet us at other events.  They'll tell me 
"You know, Bobby, he's sitting down at the table and 
listening now and mama and papa are speaking French and 
he'll say (French phrase), or something like that"  whereas 
before the child would have just escaped from the supper 
table and gotten out of there as fast as he could, which is 
wonderful because there's almost more of those kids can 
learn from their grandparents as there is that they can 
learn from me. 

A. LOMAX

You (unintelligible) to actually collect Cajun French. 

TEACHER #1

Well, I do.  When I teach Cajun French, that's usually how I 
present my lessons.  Any new vocabulary that they are going 
to learn.  Of course it presents problems to me in the sense 
that I can't plan ahead for what kind of vocabulary I'm 
going to have to exploit with the students.  But if we start 
a lesson on, for instance, at the beginning of the year they 
learned greetings, and I said to them all, I taught them 
"Comment ca va" and "Bonjour" and I sent them home and I 
said find out as many ways to say hello, how do you do as 
you can.  Later, we asked them, we were talking about 
expressions, they had all heard (french phrase) and they 
had all heard (french phrase).  There are a lot of other 
ways to express sadness, to express disdain...

(tape ends at this point)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.