Time Code:
Tape:  1318  Carl Brasseau (cont.)
Carl:  There have been two counter threads running thru the
history of the Acadian society in North America.  First has
been their isolation.  If I can point out several geographi
features on the map here., the Acadians for almost 2 centur
here in Louisiana, were almost completely isolated by
geography from the outside world.  The Acadians on the 
prairies were insulated from the world to the east, and
especially New Orleans by a very large, untractable swamp.
called Atchafalaya swamp, one of the largest, if not the
largest water bottom swamp in North America.  This forced
all American immgration northward, and nearly all the major
American periods of migration had little effect on this are
Secondly, out in this area, there's a very very large prair
For decades, Louisianans considered this area to be uninhabitable.
The lack of wood prevented the settlers from
building and maintaining homes, there was also a lack of 
firewood, and it was very difficult to find water in the
area. The Acadians living in this area were insulated form
outside influences by a large swamp here, and a large
coastal marsh here.  So, these areas become the bastions of
traditional Acadian culture in Louisiana.  The second commo
theme running thru Acadian history is the cohesiveness of
Acadian society itself.  Despite the diversity of economic
pursuits as early as pre-dispersal settlement in Nova Scoti
and despite the diversity of economic pursuits here in
Louisiana, you find most Acadians, at least those not movin
up the social ladder into plantation society, maintaining

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.