[* SNAKE TALES *] 

LOMAX
PAGE 105 

A     (continued) 
my ah - and Hickses ah, and Stanley's sister
of course has an endless fantasy (she lives
alone)  about fighting, ah, the black snakes
who are crawling in her walls.  Now black
snakes do live in the walls, and they are 
domestic, and they're good against rats and
so on.  But she spend a great deal of her time
she says shooting black snakes with her 
shotgun.  [LAUGHS] 

Um, so, Stanley Ray and his friends moved 
gradually from these ah, these tall tales
about animals, these hoaxes that ah America 
has ah, has loved and all of - and its
adventures on the frontiers, from - all the 
way from New England to California, ah, with
its tall tale storytellers from Davey Crockett
to Jim Bridger.  We're seeing that in action
here now, and then Ray tells the story about
the magical hunt.

[*MAGICAL HUNT*]     Remember, the hunt story is about the animals
who co - virtually co-operate with the hunter.
The old belief is that, primitive hunter,
that you sing to the animal and you know his
language and basically he dies because he's
for you, he wants to help you. 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.