AL ROSE    -3

to walk around at night, you know, in the, in the quarter.
And I used to stand outside the Fern Dance Hall when I was
about, oh, I guess 7 years old.  And I could hear the music.
Now that might be any kind of a band in there.  It might be
a, a band like Harry Shields and Armond Hug or it might be
Peter La Coz or one of the black dance bands.  But all the
music sounded great and it had a lot of common 
characteristics.  So you develop favorite sounds.  And then
going out to (Milneburg) it was, you know, it was like we
had a blind dog in a meat house.  They had 60 or 70 bands
out there every weekend.  You could walk around on all these 
piers and hear incredible music.

LOMAX       Milneburg was on (Lake
Ponchatrain)?

ROSE           Yes.  It's where Ponchatrain Beach 
is now, where Ponchatrain Beach Amusement Park is now.  And
these were all piers extending out into the lake.  And they
were all interconnected by boardwalk ways.  I mean it was
the kind of a thing where you'd cut a hole in the floor of,
of your shack and fish and men would sit around and play
cards.  And the kids would swim in the, in the lake.  And
bring a turtle out and bar-b-cue the turtle in the shell,
and cook it in the shell.  And that was called a [cowine]. 
That's a creole word, cowine.  And it means both turtle and
picnic.  And it's because of the fact that you went to the
French market and bought the turtle and pit it on smokey
Mary which was the train that went out of (Legion Fields) to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.