BARRY ANCELET   -7

Pris] where the church was, and the first church where the
Arcadians were, were called for the meetings where they were
arrested to be deported.  And there, there was a list of
names, you know, on the wall, all the people, [Arcenot,
Budreau, Bobineau, Terryo], and, and their first names and
how old they were and, and they were people, they were human
beings who were herded on the ship like cattle, you know.
And it, it was just a very moving experience.  And after
that, went from there, got we got into the car again and we
were going down to the, to, back down to the Bay St. Marie
area just for a, a vacation.  And we were almost out of gas.
So we stopped in a service station and of course all the
people around there now, around Grand [Pris] are English
speaking because for precisely the reason that the English
deported the French, they took them out of the area.  And so the
fellow who was filling my car up with gas noticed that
my English wasn't like his and said you're not from around
here.  And I said no, I'm from Louisiana.  Oh, he says,
you're a long way from home.  [LAUGHS]  I said yeah, I'm a
long way from home but you know my people used to live here.
They got kicked out by the English 200 years ago.  And a
wall fell between us.  He didn't say anohter word until he
had finished his gas pumping.  And I didn't say another word
until I'd paid him.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.