CAJUNS-LOMAX II   -30

     Well, he was so charming that the whites
wanted him to have at their dances.  Go, I don't want to
talk to anybody.  And the, and he, he went to these white
dances.  Of course he was in danger there because he was in
a mixed company in a place where, where violence against
blacks was an every day matter.  You have to remember that a
black in those days in Louisiana, if a black didn't lower
his eyes when a white man looked him straight in the eye and
said hey boy, what you doing?  he might, he might get a, hit
in the head with stick.  Knocked in the ditch.  And there was
nothing he could do about it.  No, nowhere he could go for
justice.  Even if the policeman saw it he'd turn his back
and walk off.  Get off the sidewalk, boy.  What you doing
driving your mule in my yard?  And on forever.  So Amadee
was in that world and he was playing those dances.  So you
know, the story, we have the story of what happened.  And
everyone was, everyone was struck with horror that the most
beautiful singer of that world, that everyone knew was the
most wonderful singer of their culture, had been damaged in
this way.  The whites, the fact that the whites are still
talking about it shows how much they were affected.
     And so we have this terrifying legend of
Amadee, of the man who, who created the song in hell, the
orpheus of the place being murdered for his pains because a
white woman had deigned to express her feeling of affection
for him, although it was a sisterly act in all, in effect.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.