LOMAX
PAGE 55 

A     (continued) 
is its intense romanticism.  Ah, these people
ah had a very moral view of, of love, and a 
very intense view of the, of the personal - 
lifelong personal relationship between a
loving couple.  And ah, when Nimrod tells us
about the courtship of his wife, who's still
there and who has been the heart of his life
for 45 years, he expresses this and he also
does this in, in the ballad - one of his 
favourite ballads.  Which is the story of ah,
of a crusader captured by the Turks, sent to
prison, who woos his captor's daughter to free
him, and at that point he holds his fingers up 
in front of his face to make the bars of the
prison, and ah, she lets him go,and he 
promises to marry her some day,  but he forgets 
his promise, and she has to voyage all the way 
to his castle to, to ah, ah, remind him of his
promise.  And when he hears that she's there,
he sends the servant down and ah the happy
end  [ONE OR TWO] 
is, is up to Nimrod to tell you. 
[*05 . 13 .  26 . 09*] 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.