Bounds, Terry 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
October 2, 2017 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:14]: So, could we start off with your name and if 
you could spell it please? 
 
BOUNDS: Alright. Name Terry, Bounds, B-O-U-N-D-S.  
 
SIMS: And can you tell me a little bit about your military 
career prior to working in role play? 
 
BOUNDS [00:00:32]: Okay, I went to college up in Northwestern 
state and went through R.O.T.C. (Reserve Officers’ Training 
Corp) program, got commissioned and went to Fort Benning, Fort 
Hood, and then Korea, for a year and then I got out and joined 
the Army Reserve and spent twenty-eight years total and was 
fortunate enough to graduate in another six.  
 
SIMS: And what, what were your— 
 
BOUNDS [00:01:04]: I retired in ’06, not graduate. 
 
SIMS: What was your main occupation in the reserves? 
 
BOUNDS [00:01:09]: We had…infantry training through the ninety-
fifth training division and that was, I did some other jobs with 
a unit up in Shreveport and Bossier City College, that’s a 
garrison unit where I was, worked in military personnel and I 
was the acting general for a while. And I went to Fort Rucker as 
I.M.A. (Installation Management Agency) doing a mobilization 
deployment. 
 
SIMS [00:01:37]: So when you began your career, was there any 
type of training similar to what they do with role play? 
 
BOUNDS: No, no. Nothing close. 
 
SIMS: Well how would you describe it? Like what would they— 
 
BOUNDS: Describe what it was then? 
 
SIMS: Yeah. What kind of training, so I can sort of contrast it 
with what they have today. 
 
BOUNDS [00:01:52]: I was in the infantry we did strictly 
infantry training. There was no civilian body on the battlefield 
at all. It was find and destroy the enemy. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:02:06]: So who, who—was there part of the unit or 
augmentees that played the enemy? 
 
BOUNDS: Out here? 
 
SIMS: Well when you were training like— 
 
BOUNDS: No no— 
 
SIMS: Was there. 
 
BOUNDS: We didn’t have that. We didn’t have that. 
 
SIMS [00:02:17]: There was no other side, you were just 
practicing maneuvering? 
 
BOUNDS: Yeah. Firing and maneuvering. That’s what we did. Then, 
in the ninety-fifth division we were doing basically basic 
training and A.I.T. (advanced individual training) training.  
 
SIMS [00:02:34]: So when did you first hear about role playing? 
 
BOUNDS: Well, I had known about it for several years and I was 
working in Alexandria as the a—for the Rapides Parish Police 
Chair which is, in Louisiana that’s a county government, it’s a 
parish government, so. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
BOUNDS [00:02:55]: And I retired in 2001. And my brother-in-law, 
Doug Danzy, retired about the same year. And we were sitting 
around one day talking—and we knew what was going on out at Fort 
Polk, the training—so we decided we’d, we’d both just go out 
‘cause we were both retired and looking for something to do, so. 
That’s when we got involved. About 2002 or three, I don’t know 
exactly when. 
 
SIMS [00:03:20]: And were you hired into a normal role player 
position or were you hired as a— 
 
BOUNDS [00:03:25]: No, just a normal role player position. 
Matter of fact my first, first role play position was up in 
Peason Ridge.  
 
SIMS: What do they do up there? I haven’t— 
 
BOUNDS [00:03:38]: It’s just part of the battlefield…same thing. 
Got one of the villages up there. Just a village player. That 
was my introduction.  
 
SIMS: That’s where they have the radar tower and, and stuff? 
 
BOUNDS [00:03:49]: …I’m not sure where the radar tower is.  
 
SIMS: Okay. But it was considered part of the box? 
 
BOUNDS: Yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:03:57]: And who, do you remember what your character 
was? Like who you played or anything like that? 
 
BOUNDS: …I was just a village person or something…maybe a store 
person or something. I’m not sure. [laughing] But I have the 
robes and all the stuff, all the—it was a Iraq rotation, so. We 
had to play the part of an Iraqi. 
 
SIMS [00:04:17]: Well what were your impressions as somebody who 
had been in the military for so long and had seen all types of 
training, I’m sure, to see this new, new way of doing it, what 
were your thoughts on it? 
 
BOUNDS [00:04:26]: Well, it was impressive, really. Through the 
whole, the whole time I spent there to see the soldiers exposed 
to that type of environment. I’d never seen that before in the 
military, so. And I think it was very beneficial to get to 
inter-interact with a civilian.  
 
SIMS [00:04:49]: So how did you move from a regular role player 
to another type of role playing position? 
 
BOUNDS: Well, they had the I.O.N.G.s going on. And the 
I.O.N.G.O.s (International Nongovernmental Organization)--good 
friend of mine, Ken Johnson, was a, he was an assistant role 
player, assistant work group leader. Buck Halley was a work 
group. Anyway, through talking to Ken I got to go over and work 
with him and that was a big change.  
 
SIMS: So what do they need those people to be able to do that 
maybe not everyone could do? 
 
BOUNDS [00:05:32]: Well, when I started out we were, we had 
Iraqis playing the key government officials and we were just 
kind of assisting them, get them to where they need to go, and 
helping them out. Then in turn, when it went to the P.R.T., 
Provincial Reconstruction Team, it started out in Afghanistan, 
it was military lead. Then they went to Iraq and it was civilian 
lead, State Department lead. So we took about a week’s training, 
had a lieutenant colonel come in and our group of about fifteen 
or sixteen people I guess at that thing. Anyhow, so we actually 
had to go in and research, Ken kind of lead the charge on that 
and we came up with a P.R.T. (Provincial Reconstruction Team) 
concept, did all the role—all the…research on the players that 
had to be played and then we actually ran a P.R.T. (Provincial 
Reconstruction Team).  
 
SIMS [00:06:24]: So when you mean research is it like writing 
the biographies of people or just understanding— 
 
BOUNDS: Nope. We had to research and find out what our job was. 
[laughing] because each position was different. So we had to get 
on the internet and get everything we could dig up. 
 
SIMS: Was this is, so back at your house you would do that kind 
of research? 
 
BOUNDS [00:06:39]: Yep, yeah. All of our guys did, yep.  
 
SIMS: Did you…was it fun, I guess? 
 
BOUNDS [00:06:46]: Yeah it was fun. [clears throat] It was 
really what we call, it was a real job at that time. We had to 
go and research what to do. And we did that. We ran about, I 
don’t know maybe a year of so running P.R.T.s (Provincial 
Reconstruction Team). Then as the troops came through and went 
over and came back everything was changing so rapidly that it, 
it really required subject matter of experts that’d been on the 
ground and seen. So they contracted with, Cubic contracted with 
I.D.S. (Integrated Defense Systems) I believe it was. And they 
started bringing in experts and they started filling some of the 
roles and we started filling some of the other roles and we 
moved forward from there.  
 
SIMS [00:07:34]: So tell me a little bit about the character 
that time when you were in the N.G.O. type position. Like what 
were the challenges—what were the, I guess the challenges they 
were trying to accomplish and how did you interact with the, the 
soldiers.  
 
BOUNDS [00:07:46]: We had, we played State Department, 
U.S.A.I.D. (United States Agency for International Development), 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Corp of Engineers…I believe it’s 
part of the P.R.T. and then we also played, a part of our group—
U.N.A.M.A.(United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan), 
U.N.A.C.R. (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees), Army 
Relief, Red Cross…seemed like there was another one at the time. 
But my role was State Department. 
 
SIMS [00:08:29]: And did you feel your previous work experience 
sort of gave you the gravitas or experience to— 
 
BOUNDS: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: —play those roles? I mean you didn’t, you didn’t— 
 
BOUNDS [00:08:40]: Well, we kinda, we kinda grew into it. You 
know, as we did our research and as the troops came in and…it 
grew, and we, we developed it pretty well, I thought.  
 
SIMS [00:08:51]: So were you given a brief to say like “you’re 
trying to bring in like X amount of brief cargo and figure out 
how to work with the Americans about how to do that is—what, 
what type of things are you actually negotiating or talking 
about? 
 
BOUNDS [00:09:06]: Well…we work. We were brigade headquarters 
with staff. And primarily work with the civil affairs teams, 
there on the ground. And they would go out and try to develop 
projects and they would come to the P.R.T. (Provincial 
Reconstruction Team) to get funding and assistance and guidance 
on how to do that. Then we would sit down with them and try to 
figure out how we could…I guess multiply their resources…with 
government aid, government assistance. We had engineers go out 
and inspect wells and have wells made. U.S.D.A. (United States 
Department of Agriculture) would go out and work with farmers on 
how to do crops…U.S.A.I.D. (United States Agency for 
International Development) was primarily the funding source for 
how to pay for all this stuff. 
 
SIMS [00:9:57]: Like in that case are there actual role players 
who go out and talk with other role players who are farmers? 
 
BOUNDS: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Or do you just talk about it in the room and then— 
 
BOUNDS [00:10:07]: Well, no you go out and do it. But you do it 
with a C.A (Civil Affairs) team so that they get first-hand 
experience. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
BOUNDS: Talking with the village leaders—if the need a well and 
then U.S.D.A., or the engineers, they’re, they’re gonna put 
those things together. So, so they get to interact with both 
sides.  
 
SIMS [00:10:26]: And do they actually like, build real wells? 
 
BOUNDS: Oh no.  
 
SIMS: No. 
 
BOUNDS [00:10:30]: No. You know actually— 
 
SIMS: They just— 
 
BOUNDS: You don’t physically do anything. 
 
SIMS: Right. And so would you, are you going out with the C.A. 
(Civil Affairs) teams in those instances or people that are 
working with you? 
 
BOUNDS [00:10:42]: People in the P.R.T. (Physical Readiness 
Training) go out. Could be me, I was primarily the State 
Department so we were interacting with government officials and 
that kind of stuff so—but we had people on our team that did go 
and do that. 
 
SIMS [00:10:56]: So when you’re meeting with them are you—in 
what I imagine—consider the box being where the village are or 
is there some headquarters or F.O.B. (Forward Operating Base), 
like where you’re actually— 
 
BOUNDS [00:11:11]: P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) is 
located on the F.O.B. (Forward Operating Base)  
 
SIMS [00:11:12]: Okay. 
 
BOUNDS [00:11:13]: We had, we had the brigade P.R.T. (Physical 
Readiness Training) initially…and that was Sword primarily, 
F.O.B. (Forward Operating Base) Sword, because that’s where 
brigade headquarters was located. And then later we went out to 
have the satellite P.R.T.s at the battalions, at the other 
F.O.B.s (Forward Operating Base) so we’d have members out there 
also. 
 
SIMS [00:11:31]: So how, how much of like actual acting skill 
like comes into it…and how, how did you develop that over time? 
And was that hard for you? 
 
BOUNDS [00:11:42]: Well, I’m not an actor so [laughing] it was 
not an easy task for me, I don’t think. But…you know you just 
kind of let it go naturally and you know, the role builds and 
you get into it and you kind of play off of what’s going on, you 
know. And you just try to—you go with the flow I guess. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. Do they give you a s—like a script? Or is more of a 
general motivation and then you fill in the holes? 
 
BOUNDS [00:12:12]: The only script you get is you have an inner-
agency coordinating meeting, coordination meeting, initially 
where you meet with brigade commander and his staff and anybody 
that he wants to bring. And that’s a scripted event. [clears 
throat] The brigade commander gets to sit at the head of the 
table along with the P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) 
commander and of course they give an introduction and then it 
goes around and each player, each agency gets to give a brief on 
what their capabilities are, what they bring to the table, then 
it comes back around—commander gets to give his speech, and then 
you get a chance to kind of marry-up with a C.A. (Civil Affairs) 
team and the members from the units there and talking about 
stuff at—at that meeting, and then from there it becomes—the 
C.A. (Civil Affairs) teams go out and develop what they want to 
develop and then they come back and work with the members. But 
it’s not just—that is the P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) 
members also bring in, like U.N.A.M.A. (United Nations Assistant 
Mission in Afghanistan) and World Health and all those people, 
Red Cross—they all sit at the table also.  
 
SIMS [00:13:15]: So if you had a, let’s say two-week rotation, 
you have the initial meeting, then you’re basically having 
meetings everyday? What’s your—what the timeline sort of out of, 
for that rotation? 
 
BOUNDS [00:13:32]: It, none of the c—the brigade commander may 
have meetings set up that you go and attend, you sit in on his 
meetings, some of—the State Department people sit in on the 
brigade commander’s meeting and provide input. That’s kind of 
all that they do, really—rotation there. But then…out in the 
field, the battalion C.A. (Civil Affairs) teams, we may go out 
and they may call and ask us to come and talk to them 
individually. And we’ll go out and do that. And, and discuss 
their priorities and what we can do—help them with. And then 
back and forth on—they’ll come in and bring ideas and we’ll give 
them information that’ll help ‘em. 
 
SIMS [00:14:17]: And where would you go in you down time, when 
you’re—I mean was there a lot of down time and—no.  
 
BOUNDS [00:14:23]: We didn’t have a lot of down time.  
 
SIMS: You were basically shuffling around? 
 
BOUNDS [00:14:26]: We were, we were on the F.O.B. (Forward 
Operating Base) so we were— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
BOUNDS [00:14:29]: Back and forth all the time. P.R.T. (Physical 
Readiness Training) later was back and forth brigade commander, 
on a pretty regular basis, you know.  
 
SIMS: And so were you ever…attacked by the 509th, or the 
opposition force? 
 
BOUNDS [00:14:44]: Oh yeah.  
 
SIMS: So you tell me what that was like. 
 
BOUNDS [00:14:47]: They attacked the F.O.B. all the time, they 
attacked us on the road too, at gunpoint. [laughing] We got hit 
several times. 
 
SIMS: Did you ever die? 
 
BOUNDS [00:14:59]: No I never got killed, I was fortunate. I 
had—several of our guys did, yeah. I did get stopped when I—one 
time I was playing U.N.D.P. (United Nations Development 
Programme), this was later. That was United Nations Development 
Programme, when they were doing the elections in Afghanistan and 
I went out to check on a voting booth–[laughing] and as I went 
back I got stopped.  
 
SIMS [00:15:21]: Did you get arrested? 
 
BOUNDS: And retained. 
 
SIMS: Retained? 
 
BOUNDS: [laughing] I got retained in a village. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:15:26]: So is it sort of…fun or funny when that happens 
or is it, do you feel like— 
 
BOUNDS: It’s fun, yeah-- 
 
SIMS: Or do you feel bad?   
 
BOUNDS1: It’s all in fun, no. It’s all part of the job. It was 
fun.  
 
SIMS [00:15:42]: Are there ways you think it, or did you see 
ways in which it improved over time or do you see things that 
they could make better in terms of… 
 
BOUNDS [00:15:54]: I think it, it improved as, as, as we got 
more information and more people came back with what was going 
on o the ground. And we tried to adapt to that and we changed 
the way we did things to reflect the current events, you know. 
And, it was definitely more fluid at the end— 
 
SIMS: So— 
 
BOUNDS: At the end of the time I was there, than it was. 
 
SIMS [00:16:19]: So how does the information get back? Like a 
commander or a C.A. (Civil Affairs) team returns from theatre 
and are they talking directly to people? 
 
BOUNDS [00:16:29]: When we started, going with the subject-
matter of experts. You know a month return from what’s actually 
happening.  
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
BOUNDS [00:16:39]: And of course it’s not just us ever working 
with the, the Civic and J.R.T.C. (Joint Readiness Training 
Center) working with the hedge head up there. So they were 
currently changing things. Had a script of events that happened, 
you probably saw that, they did scripted events that influenced 
the battlefield…for all the role players and that changed after 
they got feedback.  
 
SIMS [00:17:06]: So how long total were you out there? 
 
BOUNDS [00:17:11]: Eleven or twelve years, I don’t know, it’s a 
long— 
 
SIMS: Quite a while. 
 
BOUNDS: Kind of lose track of time.  
 
SIMS [00:17:16]: Right. Sounds like a good retirement job? Or 
did you, did you feel like it was a job to do in retirement or 
did you feel it was a— 
 
BOUNDS [00:17:24]: Yeah, it was something I enjoyed doing ‘cause 
I—first of all, those young men and women who wear a uniform, 
are the greatest kids you’ll ever meet, you know. My, the get 
all my total respect and I love working with them, you know, so. 
If you can help make their job easier—maybe one little thing 
makes it easier for them or helps them be safer—then you’ve done 
something good.  
 
SIMS [00:17:51]: What about the work sc-it’s not your typical 
work schedule, right? Was that difficult to adjust to? 
 
BOUNDS [00:18:00]: You know, when we first started out working 
in the village I had to get up at two o’clock in the morning 
[laughing] get out after four. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
BOUNDS: And we were putting in sixteen hour days and you know, 
for an older guy that was not an easy task, you know. Especially 
when you come from an administrative environment. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
BOUNDS [00:18:21]: Where I came from. We adjusted and then with 
the I.O.N.G.O.s (International Nongovernmental Organization) 
our, our shift was more like twelve hours, started like seven in 
the morning, so. You know it weren’t bad.  
 
SIMS: Which did you, did you prefer: the regular role playing or 
the— 
 
BOUNDS: I preferred the P—the I.O.N.G.O. (International 
Nongovernmental Organization) 
 
SIMS: Yeah? And why was that? Because it was more interaction 
and— 
 
BOUNDS [00:18:21]: A lot of, lot of interaction with the troops, 
lot of interaction with the brigade staff and you felt like you 
were doing something good, you know? 
 
SIMS: So how would you…are there times when you noticed that a 
particular rotation unit like—I can understand like out in the 
field you would know immediately—something goes wrong, if you 
get ambushed or something happens tactically and there’s like, 
casualties, how would something go poorly in a meeting? Like 
somebody was unprepared or said the wrong thing from a, a unit 
that’s training, what does that look like? 
 
BOUNDS [00:19:30]: I’m not quite sure what you’re getting at, 
what your question is. 
 
SIMS [00:19:32]: So, not everybody, not all the rotation units 
are going to come in and do it perfectly, right? 
 
BOUNDS: Oh no.  
 
SIMS: Like— 
 
BOUNDS: Some were better than others, no doubt.  
 
SIMS: So what are, the people that don’t do as well, like what 
kind of mistakes are they making? Are they like overpromising 
or— 
 
BOUNDS: Yes.  
 
SIMS: Is that— 
 
BOUNDS [00:19:50]: Got a lot of that, trying to do too much for 
the, on the C.A. (Civil Affairs) side. Overpromising for that, 
not—initially I think they were trying to think at the brigade 
level instead of thinking at the local level, some of them did. 
And pushing down projects that they didn’t want. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
BOUNDS [00:20:14]: You know. [laughing] But then they’d learn to 
have it feed up from the local. 
 
SIMS: And how do they learn that? Are there like— 
 
BOUNDS [00:20:24]: Because the locals play their role very well 
and they got aggravated. [laughing]  
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
BOUNDS [00:20:30]: You know, and then they know what they 
wanted. So yeah. And then we had one, we did one P.R.T. 
(Physical Readiness Training) and then we had one brigade 
commander that all he wanted to do was shoot and kill. He wasn’t 
interested in P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) or Civil 
Affairs, or anything else. [laughing] So we didn’t have a lot of 
interaction that rotation. But that was, that was on them, they 
changed a lot after that. They got used to it because they 
didn’t understand at that point when we first got started what a 
P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) was. 
 
SIMS [00:21:03]: So how much, I mean, I think from a—for an 
outsider it seems…I guess I’m wondering to what extent like does 
the commander like way of thinking about things or personality 
can have like such a huge impact where they might not interact 
with you all as much, whereas the next unit that comes through 
is totally different but— 
 
BOUNDS [00:21:28]: Personality’s different but that’s, that’s 
leadership style, dependent on the brigade. I saw nothing but 
professionalism the whole time I was there. From brigade 
commander to brigade staff so, what worked for them worked, you 
know, may not have worked for another unit but it worked for 
them. 
 
SIMS [00:21:48]: Right. Do you feel in your total Arm—the 
totality of your Army career that…everything’s become more 
professionalized or has it been roughly the same. 
 
BOUNDS [00:22:00]: You know, these, these kids that are in the 
Army today, they’re smart. They can—all this technology that I 
can’t even do, you know. They’re wizzes with it, you know. From 
the time I spent in the military these, these kids are way more 
advanced, units more advanced, today, you know. They have a lot 
more on their plate. A lot more things to deal with than what we 
had.  
 
SIMS [00:22:33]: Is there anything we haven’t covered, you think 
is important to mention?  
 
BOUNDS [00:22:41]: Nothing, I think that’s all. P.R.T.’s 
(Physical Readiness Training) a very valuable tool for training 
the military, you know. Where else are they gonna get that kind 
of exposure, you know. And need them with the public, wherever 
you go is, is, it’s an adventure [laughing] to say the least, 
so—these kids…these kids and, and, and the leadership too are 
doing a heck of a job, I think.  
 
SIMS [00:23:08]: Alright, just a couple more questions—how did 
you feel the…well there was the subject matter experts who 
might’ve been role players or I—I guess the question is with 
actual Iraqi Americans, Afghan Americans, were there cultural 
nuances that came up like in the meetings that you observed that 
maybe you didn’t—you know were kind of part of the interaction 
that soldiers had to know about? 
 
BOUNDS [00:23:54]: Yeah because we had to know about a, we had 
cultural role players as part of the P.R.T. (Physical Readiness 
Training) and that was their job, to interact and teach them 
what, what the…kind of what, how do you say…teach them the ways 
and the methods that the locals use. And teach things that they 
need to know as far as things they shouldn’t do. 
 
SIMS [00:24:21]: What would some of those things be? You know 
that maybe you or I wouldn’t know offhand if, you know… 
 
BOUNDS [00:24:27]: Well one thing is…you’re not supposed to show 
them the bottom of your feet when you’re sitting at a table. 
That’s a, that’s a no-no as far as the locals go. You always 
shake hands with the right hand. And, you know, that’s the, 
that’s the things that I noticed—there were other things out in 
the field, I’m sure.  
 
SIMS [00:25:00]: Alright well, thank you for your time, I 
appreciate it.  
 
BOUNDS [00:25:02]: Well I don’t know if you can use it or not, 
may not help you. 
 
SIMS [00:25:07]: Well it helps, you know. I hadn’t talked to 
anybody that had your position before so… 
 
BOUNDS [00:25:16]: We played a lot of positions so. I played, I 
was on P.R.T. (Physical Readiness Training) most of the time 
once I started but also in the other, played Deputy Chief of 
Missions [laughing] U.N.A.M.A. (United Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan), U.N.D.P. (United Nations Development 
Programme), World Health, I’ve done it all. 
 
SIMS [00:25:33]: What’s your favorite—which one was your 
favorite or did you, do you have a favorite role? 
 
BOUNDS [00:25:38]: You know, I think I enjoyed the P.R.T. 
(Physical Readiness Training) more ‘cause I was actually working 
with the troops there. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
BOUNDS: On the, on the others you worked but it’s a lot of phone 
work, a lot of going to meetings— 
 
SIMS: Right. [laughing] 
 
BOUNDS [00:25:51]: Out in the villages and doin’ stuff, and 
meetings and things. But, but the P.R.T. (Physical Readiness 
Training) it was—you were busy everyday, working with the unit, 
so. I guess that would be my favorite. 
 
SISM [00:26:05]: So why did, why did you retire from your 
retirement job? 
 
BOUNDS: When? Or why? 
 
SIMS: Yeah, was it—was there a particular… 
 
BOUNDS [00:26:14]: I was federal—well…director of economic force 
development for the parish, thirty years and that was enough, I 
decided it was time to retire. And I’d retired with twenty-eight 
years reserve time, military time, so I went out there…my wife 
retired in twenty—like three years ago and that’s when I decided 
to come home, so we could enjoy doing a few things together.  
 
SIMS: Right. No you have nine, nine grandchildren? 
 
BOUNDS: Nine grandchildren—one is six months old. 
 
SIMS: Oh wow. 
 
BOUNDS [00:26:45]: And then we’re trying to watch him while his 
mother works. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: So he’s, he’s nearby? 
 
 
END OF INTERVIEW [00:26:53]