Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Lisa Marie Bias interview, 2013-06-27 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00491 
Date: June 27, 2013 
Duration: 1:38:11 
 
0:00:07.8 Debbie Fant, June 27, 2013, at the apartment of Lisa Bias in 
Seattle, WA. Fant gets general bio information.  
 
0:01:07.8 Over the years, Lisa has picked eggs, raked blueberries, worked 
in a florists shop putting together terrariums, worked at a town dump in 
Maine, Young Adult Conservation Corps (1977, '78), Range Wildlife Dept. 
at Colorado State University picking up animal droppings, grinding them 
up, putting them on slides, taking care of 17 lizards. Ponderosa Steak 
House. Reservations for United Airlines. Skills, Inc., a disabled 
workshop as a receptionist and starting off in shipping and receiving.  
 
0:02:49.6 Lisa is in AFA, the Association of Flight Attendants union, 
Local 11. She works for United Airlines.  
 
0:03:39.1 Lisa describes how she came to work for United. Was in an 
Italian class at Seattle University, a man in the class told her how he 
got to live in Brazil. His wife worked for United Airlines in 
reservations. Lisa said she wanted an application. She was working for 
Skills, Inc. at the time and wanted to quit. United gave her a call, and 
she started in reservations in 1995. She did that for five years, they’d 
become the IAM (International Machinists union). They were either going 
to close the reservations office or move it, so she had to figure out 
what to do. Several friends in reservations had decided to become flight 
attendants or customer service agents, and Lisa decided to apply. Her 
colleagues didn’t think Lisa could be a flight attendant because she wore 
overalls to work, her ways of doing reservations were unorthodox.  
 
0:06:33.4 She put her application in, they called her and asked for an 
interview. She went to the interview wearing a Goodwill outfit, bought 
cheap pumps to wear, pulled her hair back, put makeup on, and treated it 
like it was a "Miss United Pageant." She got it! When she returned to 
reservations they all knew before she did, but they didn’t understand how 
shed aced the interview. Then they didn’t think shed make it through 
training.  
 
0:07:44.9 She was still working at Skills, Inc. as a day job, and they 
promised to hire her back when she was finished if training didn’t work 
out. She went to training, and it was difficult because they "mess with 
your head." They’d wake you up in the middle of the night for no reason, 
she thinks to find out if you could be flexible. That was the whole 
point. You had to be prepared to do just about anything at any time.  
 
0:09:22.2 Training was outside of Chicago in Elk Grove Village, like a 
flight attendant hotel. They called it "Barbie Bootcamp," and shed never 
had to wear makeup every day or dress properly. That made it difficult 
for her. Her biggest worry was one night, she’d just washed her hair and 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
she wanted to go downstairs to snag some chocolate milk. They weren’t 
supposed to leave the room unless they were dressed in "business attire." 
If you weren’t dressed that way, you were supposed to walk straight out 
the door. She thought, "Who’s up at 1 in the morning?" So she pressed the 
elevator button, and a supervisor was in the elevator. She took the 
elevator to the lobby and walked straight out the door with her hair 
soaking wet and wearing pajamas. But she still made it through training. 
 
0:11:08.2 Four people were kicked out during her training for different 
reasons. Supposedly there was an orgy in the bathroom, but she thinks 
they were trying to wash people out of the program.  
 
0:12:31.1 She ended up taking the job with United because it was so much 
trouble making it through the training. She wanted to try the job for six 
months. United promised she could go back to reservations if she wanted. 
That was in 2000.  
 
0:13:12.5 First day at work? She was based out of San Francisco, so she 
had to commute from Seattle to San Francisco for her job. She eventually 
got a crash pad. United called her at 2 AM, told her what trip she was 
doing, told her what time check-in was, she had to get herself up and 
ready. Shed figured the bus system and arrived by bus. There’s a briefing 
before the flight, you find out what your position is for the day. 
Position goes by seniority, since she was at the bottom of the list and 
on reserve, she was the last to choose. The positions you could choose on 
a 737 were purser, number 2 or number 3. Three would have been doing 
galley, 2 would be greeting. Two and 3 would work the back of the plane, 
the purser would work the front of the plane in First Class. She got 
coach that day. She was scared to death, but once she got out there it 
was easy.  
 
0:15:14.4 Helping people with bags was the hardest part of the trip. Once 
people were on the plane, she didn’t have to do galley. All she had to do 
was go out and do drinks, waters. She was still scared, but it was "a 
piece of cake!"  
 
0:16:22.8 First uniform: she never wore the dress because she didn’t want 
to have to buy pantyhose. She wore pants and a white shirt with an emblem 
on the front, a vest, and a suit coat. The uniform was issued to her but 
she had to buy it. It came out of her paycheck. The first set was $700 
and something, and they didn’t get paid for training, so all of the new 
flight attendants were struggling. They were told they could get food 
stamps if they needed to because they weren’t going to be paid much that 
first year. She thinks she made $15,000 the first year.  
 
0:17:35.9 Two pairs of pants, maybe four shirts, two long sleeve, two 
short sleeve. One vest, one winter coat. Two suit jackets. One piece of 
luggage--roller bag was given to them. Most purchased a smaller bag to 
take with them. If you were smart, you got a lunch bag for your own 
lunch. They were allowed three pieces and a purse, which they were also 
issued. Purse was like a beautiful old Coach leather bag, really nice. 
Also one set of wings. Always had to wear her wings.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
0:19:16.3 Hair and makeup. Lisa has curly hair, but it’s out of control. 
She had long hair at the time and pulled it back in a bun or a French 
roll. There were clips, made in Brazil, shaped like a bird’s beak. It was 
easy to roll her hair into that clip and keep it in place. After 9/11, 
the bird’s beak was taken from her because it could be used as a weapon. 
That made life more difficult. United wanted her to slick her hair down, 
and she did in the beginning, but afterwards she let wisps go naturally.  
 
0:20:19.4 Supervisors would monitor the flight attendants appearance. 
They’d always look at your shoes, which had to be leather with no 
decoration, a heel that was separate so no clogs or wedges. Everything 
had to be perfect. You were expected to wear makeup, and Lisa was talked 
to about makeup. She did wear lipstick, tried to wear mascara and 
foundation. Mascara would make her eyes itch. She didn’t like the makeup, 
so she didn’t wear it too often. You got check rides to see how well you 
were doing. A supervisor would come on the plane and make sure that you 
were dressed properly. You’re supposed to wear your jacket when people 
board; when working you were supposed to wear an apron unless you were 
wearing a vest. So they were issued two aprons. The supervisor made sure 
you served the drinks properly, interacted with the passengers, kept your 
galley in order so no problems if there were turbulence. Looking to see 
mostly that they were dressed properly, Lisa thought.  
 
0:22:35.9 It’s easier for male flight attendants because they needed only 
one pair of comfortable shoes. But hair couldn’t go beyond collar for men 
or women. For women, pull it back. For men, cut it. Facial hair couldn’t 
be very long, kept close to the face. Certain styles weren’t legal. They 
were going to ban goatees, but not beards. Women were scrutinized a lot 
more. Had to be careful with earrings. Could wear only one pair of 
earrings, no bigger than a quarter. Nothing dangling. One necklace, one 
pair of earrings, two rings, one bracelet. Everything had to be 
conservative. If you had two holes in your ears, you had to take one pair 
of earrings out. Only black headbands. No bling or decoration. One pin 
for a holiday. Also issued a fake handkerchief for holidays. For Fourth 
of July, it was a flag. For Valentine’s Day, you could wear hearts.  
 
0:25:39.7 Lisa is still at the bottom in the hierarchy. United hired the 
flight attendants until 2001, so when 9/11 happened they stopped hiring. 
She got furloughed right off the bat. That furlough lasted for five or 
six months. Then they hired again in 2006, 2007, 2008. There were more 
furloughs after that, but they were voluntary furloughs.  
 
0:27:03.1 Lisa got an involuntary furlough right after 9/11, and she got 
hired back in four to six months. Their union was able to bring some of 
the people back who were just fired or let go. They weren’t clear why 
United was letting people go. But a lot of the people hired back in 2006, 
2007, 2008 have disappeared because they couldn’t afford to do the job. 
She’s worked for United as a flight attendant just about 14 years, and 
she’s based in Seattle.  
 
0:28:22.9 She was based in San Francisco for nine years. She lived in 
Seattle, but she was based in San Francisco. She had to commute on her 
own down to San Francisco. She had to "pass ride" down to San Francisco 
to get to and from work. At times the passes were free, other times they 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
weren’t. It was difficult to pass ride because planes were always full. 
United’s flights are now more full because they use more of the regional 
jets, the "RJs." There are a lot of senior people who commute from 
Seattle to San Francisco because there are better trips down there--
Beijing, Shanghai, London, Seoul. You get paid more for international 
trips. By the time she got out, it was very difficult. She’d come back 
from vacation, had a crash pad at the time, and she discovered shed 
finally gotten her transfer to Seattle.  
 
0:30:46.4 Lisa lived at the airport for three years, which you aren’t 
supposed to do. They weren’t allowed in the crew lounge after a certain 
time of night, so shed go to different gates and find a place that was a 
bit darker, then find a space to sleep. Shed have her phone in case the 
crew desk called, then she’d be ready to go. Then the crew lounge was 
opened up so they could spend the night there, so the Hawaii commuters 
who came in late, or someone who had driven in from Sacramento had time 
before their trip to take a nap. There were a pack of "airport rats," 
they called themselves. Different nicknames for people: Domicile Dave, 
Lounge Lisa was her name. There was a group that lived there at the time 
that looked out for each other. They would clean the crew lounge when the 
cleaner’s didn’t do a good job. It was like the movie that Tom Hanks was 
in. They’d find places to hang out. There was a miniature movie theatre, 
so if Lisa got bored during the day she could sneak in and watch a movie. 
Friends would come and bring food from home so she wouldn’t have to pay 
for food.  
 
0:33:09.1 If you got a trip, you could take a shower at your hotel. 
United pays for the hotels that the attendants stay in on their trips. If 
you got a trip, that was where you took your showers. The pilots had a 
shower in their lounge. Sometimes they’d sneak into the pilots lounge. Or 
sometimes friends would come and take you home so you could take a 
shower. After three years of doing that, she got sick. The temperature 
would be hot, then freezing cold in the airports.  
 
0:34:52.5 There were flight attendants living like this at every airport. 
They couldn’t afford to live any other way. At the hubs there’s usually a 
domicile. At the smaller airports, there’s a sleeping lounge by the 
gates. They don’t have that anymore in Seattle. A place you could relax 
between your trips. She got stuck at the Portland airport one time, no 
proper resting lounge but a tiny room she was told she could use that had 
a buzzing noise. They locked her into the room, and she never stayed in 
that airport in that room again.  
 
0:36:30.8 During the day at the airport, Lisa would stay in her uniform, 
especially if she thought she could get a trip. But most of the time shed 
change into regular clothes. Her way of dressing for the airport was: her 
overalls, shed have a place for her cell phone in the front pocket. A 
place for glasses. A place for a toothbrush. It was like living like a 
hobo.  
 
0:37:20.0 There’s a thing called "call-in reserve," which means you find 
out at 7 pm what time you go to work, or ready-reserve, which means if 
you have six days on, they can call you in anytime during those six days 
and say they have a trip. They’re supposed to call you four hours ahead 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
of time. There’s also "short call," which means only two hours notice, 
and you have to be there.  
 
0:37:51.8 When she was living at the airport, she could show up for a 
short call. Once, when she was living at the crash pad, she was at the 
grocery store and not close to the crash pad. She got a short call to 
Beijing. She did everything she could to get back and get her clothes 
changed. She had to call a taxi and made it. You’re supposed to do your 
best to get there. If you can’t get there, you did what you could. But 
you have to show up so they know you tried. They’ll usually have someone 
else on standby who can pick up the trip. Airport standby is something 
you can get when you’re on reserve. In Seattle, there’s a 4:15 standby, a 
5:00 am standby, and there’s usually only one person for the whole day. 
You sit for four hours, if you aren’t used during that time, you’re gone 
for the day. If you were on reserve, you could be assigned standby, and 
usually you get it at 7pm the night before so you’d know what time of the 
day you’d need to go in. If you had 11pm standby you could nap in the 
daytime; if you had a Sydney trip, which leaves about that time, you’d be 
exhausted if you had been on standby all day and weren’t able to take a 
short nap before the trip.  
 
0:40:15.5 Flight attendants are paid from the time the chock is taken 
from the wheels and the plane starts backing up until the wheels touch 
the ground. They pay for 5 hours a day whether worked that or not. If you 
flew more than that, you got paid more. You’d show up, go to briefing an 
hour before the trip, go to the plane, wait for the plane to come, get on 
the plane, do safety checks, set up the galley and get the plane ready. 
All before being paid for the trip. Sometimes these days you aren’t able 
to get your safety checks done before they’re boarding the passengers. 
When boarding the passengers, sitting at the jetway with the door closed, 
you’re not getting paid for that time. Taxiing in, having touched down 
already, not getting paid for that. You get paid only $1.60 or $1.90 an 
hour for those times.  
 
0:42:15.3 With United Airlines, the limit for flying is 92 hours a month 
for reserve. But being at the bottom of the list, she doesn’t pay much 
attention because she picks up whatever is given her. Sometimes you can 
opt for more hours--she’s heard of people working 130 hours a month. 
Depends on where you’re based. In Seattle, there are not a lot of people 
who are willing to give up their trips, so it’s hard to get trips. In San 
Francisco, it was easier to trade or pick up hours. More trips in San 
Francisco.  
 
0:43:34.5 Lisa would be called at her home phone by the crew desk. When 
she first started, it was a crew desk they could do face-to-face with. 
One in Chicago, one in San Francisco, Denver, L.A., and D.C. You could 
see them face to face. Now everything is done out of Chicago. They call 
you in order, by time worked and how many days you’re good for, and give 
you your assignment.  
 
0:44:27.2 This month (June 2013), Lisa had a "line." When you start with 
United, for first five years, you’re on reserve. Either call-in reserve 
or ready reserve, by seniority. You bid for those. After five years you 
"merge," and every other month you have a line month, then a reserve 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
month. June was her line month, which means she bid trips. She’s given a 
bunch of trips on a piece of paper and she chooses which trips she’d like 
to do. The line will have, for example, Seattle to Boise to Denver to 
D.C. Could be a two-day trip, a one-day trip, a four-day trip. In Seattle 
there’s nothing more than a four-day trip. You have a line with all these 
different trips on it. You choose which line looks good--because a line 
pays more money, the time they can get off is better for them, or they 
want to work with a particular crew. But Lisa is at the bottom, so she 
doesn’t really have a choice near the top of her choices. She just got 
off her line month. In that month, she worked two of the trips that were 
in the line she originally got. She traded out two of the trips for ones 
that worked better for her.  
 
0:46:25.3 The line she got had three-day trips. One was to Fort 
Lauderdale, some to Newark. Every trip went through Houston, except 
Newark was a direct flight.  
 
0:47:18.2 Her favorite trip is to Beijing. It’s a 13-hour flight. When 
she was based in San Francisco, most of the women she went with were ex-
Pan Am flight attendants, who are some of the best you’ll ever work with. 
They know how to have fun. When you go to Beijing you get a long layover 
and have a chance to go out and experience the place. You can go 
shopping. She likes to go and see the sights. She went to the Great Wall 
four times. She walked around Tiananmen Square. She’s seen the Forbidden 
City a couple of times. She knew the bus system and took buses, her 
favorite thing to do. At night she could peek in people’s houses and see 
what life was like. She could get a cheap massage.  
 
On the flights you had three services: The noodle service in between was 
not fun because you had to pour boiling water into little noodle dishes 
and it was a mess. She enjoys Asian people because they’re challenging 
and sweet. They challenge is trying to figure out what they’re asking you 
for. They’re good at working with you. Lisa was a good parrot, she could 
mimic the words when the Asian people would give them to her. They were 
happy that she’d try. She’d know two words, "chicken or beef." But with 
Asian passengers, shed get poked a lot because that’s how you get 
someone’s attention. They like to come back to the galley and get their 
exercise.  
 
0:51:39.1 So many things have changed since she started working for 
United. Now they’re pouring drinks rather than passing out cans. They 
can’t give out a can unless someone asks for it to save money. Cleaning 
up is easier because they recycle and don’t have to use as many bags. 
They have bags for newspaper, garbage, cans, plastic bottles. Recycling 
is new. The bins in the galley break and don’t get fixed. The carts are 
in poor condition. She had an "occupational" last year when a cart jumped 
at her and her arm got messed up. An "occupational" is time off to 
recover from the injury. A lot of flight attendants get torn rotator 
cuffs from closing overhead bins.  
 
0:53:56.4 Your flying partner can be part of the challenge. In Seattle, 
the flight attendants are pretty helpful. If you don’t have the proper 
equipment, it’s a problem. Sometimes the cans are sticky, so shed have a 
paper towel to wipe the cans down. In first class recently, they were 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
serving soup and she wasn’t given a pot holder so she had to use paper 
towels, the plane dropped, and she burned her arm. They don’t always have 
trash bags to pick up the plane. It’s hard to use a bin to pick up. They 
aren’t supposed to use a trash cart, but it’s easier to put a bin on top 
of a trash cart to collect cans and throw the garbage in.  
 
0:55:39.7 It’s easier to sell the boxed meals, but it was a challenge at 
first because the machines didn’t work or the batteries were dead or the 
ink was out, and people wanted receipts. Another challenge was not having 
what they need, like cups. She had a couple of trips where all she was 
given in first class was wine glasses, no drinking glasses. So she 
informed the passengers that they drink elegantly or out of a plastic 
glass. They all chose to drink "elegantly."  
 
0:56:59.0 Sometimes the passengers blame the flight attendant. With 
flight attendants, it’s usually about bags, or why can’t I have my iPad 
on. But in reservations she was able to tell customers that she was only 
doing her job. Shed let them say whatever they wanted for five minutes, 
then shed hang up. If they wanted to work out the problem, shed usually 
have the formerly mad customers as her best friends. It’s a challenge to 
explain "I’m only doing my job." So for example, sometimes you have to 
explain to someone who’s in the exit row what they need to do. And if 
she’s not comfortable with who’s sitting there, because of the way 
they’re looking at her, or if they don’t speak the language, then she 
moves them. She’ll try to move them to economy plus so they still have 
legroom. Some people get angry for that.  
 
0:59:47.2 People are trying to bring as much in their one bag as they 
can. Bags aren’t fitting in overhead bins because they’re too full. It’s 
a space thing. Some bring on two bags but they want to separate 
everything out into three or four bags. It’s a struggle to handle it. She 
tends to climb on top of the seats and manipulate bags in order to get 
more bags onto the plane. She also makes announcements asking people to 
hold onto their coats or smaller bags until the end. That’s the hardest 
part of the trip--getting everyone settled with bags stowed. Passengers 
will get mad at her. Shell offer to take bags and check them free at the 
gate. Most people don’t want you to touch their bags. She tries to be 
pleasant, but by the third time she can turn into the mean schoolteacher.  
 
1:03:05.1 Safety issue on the plane? No accidents as far as planes, 
unexpected landings, anything like that. Had an incident where a guy came 
on the plane looking normal, then the flight attendant call button went 
off in the back. Two guys waving for her to come back. Seatbelt sign was 
on. The guy was having a seizure, looked terrified. She asked for a 
pillow (when they still had pillows). Guy was banging his head on the 
wall of the plane. She asked the other flight attendant to notify the 
cockpit, the purser, and got the oxygen. She did remember seeing the guy 
in the waiting area with an oxygen tank on him. They called for a medical 
assist, which changed in the past month. A gynecologist came back to 
help. The guy had a lung disease and he could have died. He needed the 
oxygen and didn’t want to pay for the oxygen on the plane and you weren’t 
allowed to bring on your own personal oxygen. The gynecologist sat with 
him and held his hand the whole flight. When the guy came off the flight, 
he was fine.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
 
1:06:47.6 Now, instead of being able to call for medical assistance right 
away, they have to notify the captain, the captain calls a group. After 
they give the go-ahead, they flight crew can ask for medical assistance. 
She thinks it may be a legal issue but doesn’t know why the protocol 
changed. There is a first aid kit, a first medical kit that they can use 
if a doctor is on board, presents credentials, and the captain okays it. 
A third kit is in the cockpit if needed.  
 
1:08:14.7 Lisa used to get good first aid training. They had RET, now CQ, 
which was a two-day training. Learned how to bust open all the plane 
doors, gray box area testing where you had to know commands if you’re 
ditching, what procedures are for ditching or fire. They’re not tested on 
those things like they used to be. They used to get AED (defibulator) and 
CPR training each year. Now it’s a one-day training, and this year they 
didn’t touch AED, didn’t do CPR. They have to train each year for 
certification, and she thinks it’s a good idea to train because things 
change. 
 
1:11:19.4 Jargon term for people who appear to be intoxicated—they use a 
green light system. Green to red, green is happy, yellow is having a 
harder time talking or getting pushy, red is slurring words, etc. 
Turbulence has different levels. There are commands if you have to 
evacuate that they’re tested on every year. If you work for another 
airline, terms are different. At United, if there’s a problem and they 
land, the captain will say "Stay Seated," which means the attendants are 
supposed to get up and check outside for debris, etc. but they’re 
supposed to tell the passengers to remain seated. But with another 
airline, the flight attendants were supposed to stay seated as well. Can 
be confusing.  
 
1:14:21.8 One of her favorite trips was when Earth, Wind, and Fire were 
on the plane. They were very sweet. Verdine White showed her dance moves 
in the galley. One of the most memorable layovers was in Boise. One 
captain out of San Francisco suggested a river inner tube trip, and all 
the flight attendants went on a trip down the Boise River. The captain 
paid for the trip and the dinner afterwards.  
 
1:17:13.6 Worst plane trips were kind of fun in a weird way because they 
were more of a challenge. She had a trip to Bangkok one time, a passenger 
named Jed (you know it’s bad when you remember a name!). He was supplying 
himself for his trip and he’d ask for four drinks whenever she came 
through, back when they were supplying cans and bottles. He wanted full 
bottles, and she found him stashing the water and blankets. She cut him 
off, and then he wanted her name to report her. One woman kept going to 
the bathroom and smoking. One guy passed out in the bathroom close to her 
jump seat, his eyes had rolled up. She took care of it, but a couple of 
weeks before that a passenger had died on a Beijing trip in the bathroom, 
and that was on her mind. A lot of people on that Bangkok flight were 
going to the Full Moon Party, where people get drunk and stoned and have 
orgies on the beach.  
 
1:21:26.3 Lisa used to hear stories about the hotels. You were warned to 
check under your bed, your closet. One time a flight attendant was in her 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
room, she heard a noise and woke up, didn’t see anything and went back to 
sleep. In the morning, her shoes were by the door with a note that said, 
"You looked so lovely sleeping that I didn’t want to kill you." That’s 
one of the legends that everyone swears happened. Mostly she’s heard 
things about hotels, some true and others weren’t. Now she checks her bed 
for bedbugs. She take the sheets off and looks around the edges for eggs.  
 
1:23:39.2 There are things that happen on a plane that people think are 
stories but are really true. Her crash pad mate had a guy on her plane 
who ran to the back of the plane, and they said "You have to be seated 
now," and he said, "You don’t understand" and ran into the bathroom. Lisa 
has heard this story from other people, but she heard it the day after 
from her crash pad mate. The flight attendant call button was going off 
the whole time the plane was taking off. The "Super Senior Mama" (term 
for senior people) didn’t respond. The junior one went out because she 
was afraid of being caught by a "ghost rider" for not responding. She 
didn’t come back right away. The Senior Mama saw her standing in front of 
a pile of something with her mouth open, talking with the people who were 
sitting next to the guy who went to the bathroom. The guy had had shorts 
on, had diarrhea at his seat, ran to the bathroom, a little girl ran 
through the pile of feces and tracked more to the bathroom. That was 
pretty awful. She met the junior person on that trip several years later 
who confirmed the story.  
 
1:26:12.5 Ghost Riders are flight attendants they don’t all recognize, 
like Continental flight attendants on United flights and vice versa. 
People who watch the attendants and report, and the flight attendants 
only hear bad reports, not good ones.  
 
1:27:52.9 United Airlines has new uniforms. Lisa thinks they look sharp 
but she doesn’t like them. There seem to be problems with the quality, 
sleeves ripping out. The zippers aren’t working on the coats. When she 
got her pants, they weren’t the same size as the ones shed tried on at 
the fitting session. She had to send them back and wait for next pair, 
take them to get shortened at an approved place in Renton. She was 
anxious because they were supposed to start wearing the uniforms. They 
were issued serving jackets to wear during First and Business service, PS 
service between San Francisco and JFK. They look old-fashioned and no one 
likes them. They were issued four shirts, either short sleeve or long 
sleeve. Lisa gets short sleeve because long sleeves get coffee stains on 
them. Either pants, a skirt (Lisa got pants). Got a jewel-neck jacket, 
button down the front without a collar. That’s because if you wear the 
shirts, you’re supposed to wear a scarf. She doesn’t want to wear a scarf 
because they’re hot and, after 9/11, it’s like a garrote. They have 
jackets to wear with a skirt. The dress is blue with a stripe, like Star 
Trek. They have new wings because they’ve merged with Continental, but 
the new ones look pretty sharp.  
 
1:34:23.0 Words of advice to flying public that would make her job 
easier: Try and keep your bags small and simple. If you carry on two 
bags, put one under seat and one in overhead. Make sure it’s going to fit 
in overhead without turning lengthwise. When the flight is delayed, the 
attendants are not getting paid. A lot of times the flight attendants 
don’t have the information that the public already has because they can’t 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9
carry their smartphones. Through United.com, passengers can find out 
information about the flight. The crew may get some information that’s 
different from the information on the website. They can’t have the 
smartphones because they can’t use them on the plane. To complain to them 
about something beyond their capability is futile because they’re stuck 
in the same game.  
 
1:37:33.0 She loves her job. She likes the challenge. She wishes the 
union was more on the attendants’ side than on the company side. It’s a 
good job, a fun job to have.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
10