January 21, 1943

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

    This is in answer to your last four letters which arrived during the past
two weeks. I delayed answering the first two until I was sure that the checks
had gone out to you. The delay in answering the second two was caused by the
fact that I was out of town for a short period on a business trip. First of
all, let me apologize again for the long delay in paying you. I do not be-
lieve it wise to write to Dr. Evans about this because unfortunately part of
the fault was probably Alan's. As you well know, Alan was never fond of
bureaucratic routine and neglected to fill out certain papers which were ap-
parently necessary before you could be paid. Hereafter I assure you that I
shall not permit any folk song recording expeditions to go out again until
our Accounts Office has okayed it in advance. I trust that this will prevent
any recurrence of such delays.

    I am enclosing the copy of the report which you kindly sent me. I am
sorry that I kept it so long. Actually it had to go along with your voucher
in order to obtain payment and has just been returned to me.

    I am very anxious to hear the records which you have made for us. Are
there any good cowboy records among them? If so, we might press some in the
near future. Right now our proposal to bring out further pressings of our
folk song records is running into difficulties because of the shortage of
shellac. I hope that we shall find a suitable substitute, however.

    I am sorry to have you say that your work for the folk song archive is
done. I'll admit that we have had to suspend recording expeditions in this
country because of the shortage of gasoline and tires, but let us hope that
this is not a permanent status and that we can resume in the near future.
When that occurs, I trust that we shall be able to count on your continued
cooperation.

    With kindest regards to Miss Terrell and yourself,
    Sincerely,

    Harold Spivacke
    Chief, Music Division

HS
fg

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.