American Library Association
SECTION  FOR  LIBRARY  WORK  WITH  CHILDREN

LESLEY NEWTON, CHAIRMAN PUBLIC LIBRARY, LAKEWOOD, OHIO

IRENE SMITH, VICE-CHAIRMAN PUBLIC LIBRARY, BROOKLYN, NEW YORK

MARGARET McELDERRY, SECRETARY PUBLIC LIBRARY, NEW YORK, NEW YORK

ISABEL NICHOL, TREASURER PUBLIC LIBRARY, DENVER, COLORADO

May 14, 1940

Mr. Alan Lomax
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I hope if you have seen the American Library Association 
Bulletin you will not be disturbed by the title of your talk-
"Young America's Heritage of Folk Ballads" which I had to 
make up against the dead line. "This Singing Country" will 
appear on the official program distributed at Cincinnati.

In going back over the correspondence, I find I haven't been 
entirely clear about the afternoon program. This is a joint 
meeting of children's librarians, school librarians and 
public librarians working with the high school age, but the 
audience will of course include many others. The meeting 
begins at 2:30 on Friday and you are preceded by two other 
speakers unless you want it otherwise. Secretly, I asked for 
that on the basis of saving the best for the last.

Miss Alexander who is chairman of the meeting hasn't told me 
yet how much time approximately you are to have, so I'll ask 
her to write you directly.

I am sending you a copy of a letter received by one of our
staff who gives occasional ballad programs. We have found 
that such programs do fit in with library work with children, 
but I think it is comparatively new to the field. Perhaps 
after your experience with school children, you can give us 
some suggestions at the end or the beginning as to how we 
might make use of ballads in our library programs.

You didn't answer about hotel arrangements, so I take it you've 
made your own plans. If you will let us know when you are 
arriving, we shall be glad to meet you.

Sincerely yours,

Lesley Newton
Lesley Newton
Chairman

LN/mgb
Encs.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.