doubt due in part to the wide interest in the Texas Centennial
Celebration.

Several years ago I read a paper on "Cowboy Lingo" before
the American Dialect Society at its annual meeting at Princeton
University. Now comes Mr. Ramon F. Adams who writes a book of
256 pages and uses the same caption - a work that tells the story
of possibly 5000 words and expressions that cowboys and their
kind either have created or have twisted out of their original 
meaning. On the jacket of the book the publishers have printed
above the titled "Cowboy Lingo", another caption "All About the
Cowboy". There is some justification for this title since the
author divides his book into twenty chapters, some of which read:
The Road, The Cowboy and his Duties, Ropes and Roping, The
Round-Up, The Trail, Rustlers and Outlaws, The Cowboy Dance, etc.
Throughout these and other chapters cowboy terms are cleverly
mixed with a running description of ranch life, the different
expressions, for example, describing guns and gun plays being
grouped in the chapter on "Guns". The book, therefore, becomes
for the ordinary reader much more interesting than a dictionary.
In addition to becoming acquainted with an interesting dialect,
he is getting a good picture of ranch and trial life. The trail
life is gone but the ranch and the cowboy are still here even if 
Mr. Adams does user the past tense in all his story. If he doesn't 
agree that the cowboy of forty years ago has worthy successors, 
let him come with me to the Cowboy Reunion at Sta[n]mford, Texas,

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.