-18-
that the items that are paired are clearly labeled truth and falsehood in
some form or another, and that in the presentation, care be taken that no
advantages from the point of view of the psychology of remembering be
given to the falsehood.  Below, an effort will be made to organize some
specific suggestions to make sure that the factors which would be expected
to give a bias in the direction of greater remembering, will be place on
the presentation of truth.

IV  Education Program - Direct Counteraction
      A. Selection of Materials.
      Some types of items should NEVER be directly counteracted.  These
items are the sort for which it is difficult to prepare effective counter-
action.  They may lead to indirect counteraction, but as far as simply
pairing the rumor with the truth, it seems wisest to avoid these types.
Among these are: those items that are simply not true, items that are
partially true, double-barreled or lengthy items, expression of preju-
dice, and anxiety motivated items.
      Items that are simply not true are difficult to counteract,
since in their original form they are in the range of the plausible.
They might be true, except that they aren't.  Under these circumstances,
the only thing that can be truthfully said is, "this is not so" or some
equivalent.  This type of response is rarely as colorful as the original
rumor.  One of the important factors that bias an individual in the direc-
tion of remembering is the vividness of an experience.  If we pair a vivid
rumor with a relatively dull categorical denial, it seems very unlikely
that the latter will be the one to prevail.  If we are given a series of
such items, the reader will tend to discount the denials.  The constant

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.