-23-
be the helping of people to learn how to select good sources of information.
Care should be taken to indicate clearly what the authoritative source is;
and where feasible, desirable methods of approaching the authoritative
source of keeping in touch with official information along the lines in-
volved are to be presented.  The counteracting statements must be complete,
devastating.  A denial that is simply another version of the original should
be avoided.  The rumor as an item of social intercourse, should be elimi-
nated.  It should not simply be corrected.
          The actual writing of the counteracting material is very im-
portant.  While, wherever possible, official authoritative statements by
people normally responsible for the sort of material involved should be
quoted, they should only be used if their presentation is such as to 
guarantee their being accepted instead of the rumor.  If necessary, it may
be wise to re-write or "ghost-write" some counteractions, always submitting
them for re-approval.  The counteractions must be colorful and amusing,
completely disarming even those who believed and spread the original.  A 
ponderous theoretical analysis, or a complicated legalistic quotation, or
an answer that is obviously hedging, all should be avoided.  If the facts
are not such as to warrant a clear-cut statement, they should be withheld
from the public.  This is necessary, inasmuch as rumors, since they par-
take of the folk, tend to be short, concise, catchy, and the sort of thing
that the readers will accept.  If the counteraction cannot be of the same
order or superior, the material should be withheld.
            Security officers must check to be sure that the counteraction
program is not being used as a device for getting authoritative information
which may be of use to the enemy.  It might be possible for an enemy agent
to secure valuable information by asking for denial of a rumor, when the
denial would have to include informative items.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.