-4-

Rumors as a Guide to Information Gaps
     The analysis of rumors is most valuable in revealing those 
areas of information in which public ignorance or confusion leads
to rumors. Rumors can be converted to positive value if they are
studied as a guide to information gaps which need to be filled-not
by rumor-denials but by intensive information programs. If there
are many rumors in a community about Lend-Lease, for example, the
most effective way of handling such rumors might be to launch an
extensive information campaign on Lend-Lease--lectures, feature
stories, editorials, discussion groups, Sunday articles, etc.
     Sometimes an information gap cannot be filled temporarily,
because of military security. When a warship is in an American
harbor, for example, that fact cannot be published without aiding
the enemy, even though the warship and its sailors are visible to
many people in the port areas. Extravagant rumors about the ship,
or the crew, or the cargo may arise from such a situation. But
these rumors would not spread unless people repeated what they saw
or what they heard. The Office of War Information is in possession
of ample evidence that the enemy, or his agents, often does not
know what hundreds of Americans do know about a given war port or
war plant; the repetition of facts r rumors, in such circumstances,
often makes it easier for the enemy to find out what he did not
know, or simply suspected.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.