Roll 2      
5
Presley Hicks |
dulcimers       |

and various of them were kind of
specialist, Presley Hicks makes the
most beautiful dulcimers in the 
mountain, they go all over the 
world. You'll see him carving here
and then Ray Hicks, who is 7 feet
tall or just close to it, they used

Hicks tall story |
to love to invite Ray to Barnraising
because they didn't have to have a
ladder.  Well Ray is the greatest of
all American folk tale tellers and
he not only tells stories of 

Hicks Storytelling |
Adventures of Jack and the
Beanstalk, but there are many more
stories of that in the tradition but
he embelishes them and they grow
under his talent. 

He can make them last ten minutes or
two hours, just at will, like all 
the really great story tellers of 
the past and Sal, his sister is as
good a story teller as he is so what
I did to get the family together on
the front porch of the family house,

* Front porch of landscape. |
that looks out over the grandest of
mountains you could see Virginia,
Tenessee and North Carolina from 
their back porch. 

INTERVIEWER   
What is he doing now?

MAN   
This is really awful..off mike.



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.