MICHEL DOUCET   -4

music we probably wouldn't do it.  And so that's the way
we're going to do it.  We're going to do this music as long
as we love it and like and we do it in our houses first
before we play for anywhere.  So I think that's, that's our
way to do this.  And this is a song called Blues on [Morris]
that I learned from the Lomax tapes and also from Miss Irene
Whitfield Holmes.  This thing is in two times.  It's called
waltz a deux temp.
[MUSIC]
     :  The following is tape 1527, Earl Hardin.
     :  Tell me about the muskrat, how they
build their nest.
HARDIN  Well, there's few people ever seen
that in their lifetime.  One time it was a big [northern],
it was cold.  And I was using a [p-rope] and I was setting
trap.  And I could see something up and down and then jump
up and down.  So when I got [clost] enough I got on my knees
and I got a bunch of grass and I come up there and frankly,
I could see something a coming and a going.  And, and them
little muskrats, they, what they'd carry, it's ungodly what
they could carry in their mouth for a bunch of grass.  And,
and it was about four or five of them carrying that grass.
And it must have been an old mamma I'll say because she'd
stay right on the bed and she'd come there and she'd meet
them and she'd catch that and she'd go place that with her
feet.  And then she'd jump up and down on that stuff.  I had

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.