REVON REED   -9

cotton patch was not exactly my cup of tea.  So I asked my
father if I could go to this particular bording school for
brothers, Christian Brothers.  Ihad a friend who was already
there.  Anyway, I went to this school, 7th grade.  And
mostly I think it was to get away from this, what we just
discussed.  At that, that year they had declared an open war
on all French speaking people, I would say.  Not only kids
at school, the parents at home were scolded by the
superintendants and the principals and told to learn English
and make their kids speak French at hom.
     Do you remember that?
     They wanted the parents to speak it, too.
And they wanted the kids to teach it to the parents.  In
other words, it was completely outlawed.  And when I left in
'32 that was about the climax.  And I went on to World War
II on the, after World War II when you came back from
overseas, especially in France, North Africa, we saw the
variety of our second language.  And the amazing part is
that the French could understood us.  Then we started
fighting the public schools.  But to give an idea, and I, I
guess they meant well.  We never did hold it against the,
these people, and the English people for that matter.  But
if we were caught speaking just one word of French for that
matter on the school ground, anywhere on the school
property, we were reprimanded, generally whipped, paddled,
given lines to write, I must not speak French at school at

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.