CAJUNS-LOMAX  -18

way back in the days when they lived in French ports as
sailors.  And they would drink all morning and then begin to
tell stories.  And what stories.
     Here we have a, a -- tall tales of course.
This was the atmosphere that produced the famous John
Bunyon, Paul Bunyon, the famous lumberjack.  And, and the
Cajuns invented a, a tall tale hero of their own called
[Pascal], interestingly enough, named after the great
scientist.  And Pascal originally was a, they say, was a man
who was commissioned after World, in World War II to keep up
with the people who were cheating on their gas ration.  And
they, he, they didn't love him very much and they gave him
this awful job and a bicycle to chase the malefactors with.
And then they began to lie about how fast he had to ride.
And soon, sone they had him riding 500 miles an hour up
along the high, the, the power lines chasing, chasing his
law breakers up and down the road.  And then the stories
went on from there.  And the way you tell these stories is
one guy tells a little bit of the lie and then the next guy
tops him and so on.  We have this man here who comes from
those times telling us about Pascal.  And we hear, we see a,
a tall tale growing right in front of our eyes in the
atmosphere that they grew back in the days of Cajun
settlement.  Well then we have the Pascal story.
     And then weekend [UNCLEAR] as well.
Horseracing was the main thing.  These were horsemen,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.