10


they had to walk 20 miles to the County 
court house and they would save up their 
money for the #1 marriage license., there 
were no doctors,  there were no medicines, 
they healed themselves with their own herbs 
and there were many people who heard about 
the plight of the mountaineers and started 
educational institutions to help them .
There were no schools there and there were 
missions to help the mountaineers and some 
amount of good was done there but in the 
meantime the folks were very realistic 
about what was happening to them and they 
made very many songs and told many stories  
that reflected the hard times that were 
continually pressing in on them.

The story of this ballad was made by Frank 
Proffit after a terrifying mountain flood 
that simply washed away all the crops and 
killed all the animals and ruined the farm.

There were some of those floods that were 
so awful that the area would't recover 
from them for maybe 15 years.  There was no 
relief in those days they just had to tough 
it out.   That is what this song 'The Poor 
Man'  is about.   It still means a lot to 
Frank.  

Alan looks to [?] - good  v/o

I was raised in Texas on a song that really 
came out of the mountains that became a 
Cowboy song. "Rye whiskey I cry.    If you 
don't give my rye whisky I surely will 
die"

Pan from feet to CV Alan singing [?] to moonshining

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.