CAJUN CULTURE VO   -12

another conflict.  I came into this and made a very some, a
very sarcastic speech about it in Louisiana and was
challenged actually to a duel.  It never came off, of
course.  But it shows you the depth of feeling here.
Gradually, the Cajun was unwritten but it was still a 
language.  It  was just as legitimate in its day as Parisian
French became, except Parisian French got declared to be the
official language.  But Cajun is just as eloquent.  And for
us the most important thing is that if the Cajuns learn how
to talk Parisian French they can't sing their songs anymore
because the lilt of the tune grows out of the accent just
like all melody grows out of the words, the way that the
voice handles the language.
     Imagine translating the American hillbilly
songs into proper English and singing them.  They'd lose
their salt and flavor.  The blues have lost their salt and
flavor as they were picked up and sung, belted out by
ignoramuses on the Broadway stage.  And there's hardly any
of the black feeling in, in the Broadway musical.  You have
to, it has to be sung in the right dialect.  If you miss it
you miss this music.  And for me that's the big reason.
And, it's especially true since act, the actual basic drive
here in this wonderful cultural revival which has brought us
[burnt], red fish and all kinds of culinary and other
cultural goodies, has been the music.  This is what sparked
it and has kept the Cajun revival going.  [MIKE OFF]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.