CAJUNS-LOMAX II   -28

happen there you don't get anything happening.  That's what,
that's the actual scene always, everywhere.  And it was like
that in New Orleans and it was like that in Brasile.  It was
like that in Cuba.  But with different kinds of songs going
into this whole story.
     And some of the, there were some leading
figures in this on the black side.  There was a, this guy,
people talked about [Belaire] who came before Amadee.  But
there were certainly others who were taking hold of the, of
the French romantic tradition, of met, being melancholy
about love.  There's nothing like that in Africa at all, you
might say.  Because things are more ease, sex is easier
there.  But these blacks were learning, you know, the double
standards.  And, and they were beginning to feel melancholy
about sex.  But, and so they were making their kind of
romantic bluesy melancholy songs which went along with that.
Don't you remember we have our old lady saying how strict
she had to be when she was a girl?  Don't you think that was
bothering the French guys and they were beginning to groan
and moan about it.  And they, and those yipps and moans
come out in the songs.  Some, there were composers and 
apparently this young, this Amadee was a regular African
bard the way he lived.  He didn't, he didn't like to work.
He expected the community to look after him because
everywhere he went he created joy, just like an African
[greeo].  They, they, the, they work on their music.  That's

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.