LOMAX-SCRATCH 3   -16

is, the tale tale grows after work in the bar room when
people begin to lie about some imaginary event.  And in
French Louisiana they began to lie about a strange man named
Pascal who was a chaser of bootleggers and rider of, and
always carried a gun and always was irritable.  And soon
they had him riding his bicycle along high tension wires.
And afterwards taking trips to the moon and to hell and
everywhere.  And in him we have a tall tale hero of modern
times who out does the 21st, what is that. . .
     The first spinner of, of modern wonder tales
was a Frenchman named Jules Vern.  The great tellers of
American tall tales invented Paul Bunyon were French
lumberjacks.  And they, this French tradition of fantasy is,
is very much alive in Louisiana in the bars where they  tell
the story of, of a modern tall tale hero named Pascal.  Now
Pascal was a local guy who was assigned to try to catch
bootleggers.  And they gave him a bicycle and everybody
laughed at his frantic peddling.  Soon they had him, this,
in the, in the jokes told in bar rooms, peddling high along
the high tension wires.  Moving so fast that he split the
thunder storms in two.  In the next [UNCLEAR] Pascal was in
space out doing the adventures of the crews of. . .
[END OF SCRATCH NARRATION]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.