CAJUN   -38
titles to these songs.  Like if I learned a song from [Dayo]
I may call it [Dayo's Waltz] or if I learned it while he was
playing in Elton on in [Mont of Elton] or in a community
like this is [Tipitea], there was no title so that's why so
many times you hear the same song by different groups with a
different title.  And that's the reason, it's because at the
time there was no title.  So if I learned the song from Alan
Lomax I may call it the Alan Lomax Waltz or two-step or
[honky tonk] or whatever.  And, and like I said before,
that's why that there's, many times you hear the same song
by different groups with a different title, the same melody.
But you see when they referred to it they referred to the
melody as where they learned it or how they remembered it,
where did they learn it, where they learned it.  So the song
that they'll [UNCLEAR] place, they played it among the
Indians but he can't recall that there were a title
[UNCLEAR].
[MUSIC]  [*Bye Bye Moreau*]
AL  Listen,  [UNCLEAR], one of the best
things you did was I know, you know, remember?  [Kendry]
sang it [UNCLEAR] and then you sang it your way.  Can you do
it your way again?
     :  All right.
[FRENCH]
[MUSIC, SINGING]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.