[*-8-*]

LOMAX 
Lord Barnard and Little Musgrave.

INT 
He calls him Lord Daniel. 

LOMAX 
All right,  I told it all wrong 

INT
You told it beautifully though.

LOMAX 
[*05  17 . 13 28*]
I tell you Nimrod sings this with
illustrated gestures and we haven't run
into that, so far as I know anywhere else 
in American balladry,  now the only other
time that I have seen it has been with 
certain gypsy families in Scotland and this 
gives me the notion that maybe there is a 
gypsy in the background of the workman
family.  Gypsies did come to the mountains
and we have an occasional gypsy song.
Gypsy laddie,  which is know all over the
country. 
[*05: 17 : 52 11*] 

Sings 

[*05 . 18 . 15 . 26*]
And of course she runs away with him and 
the ballad goes on.  There is an occasional
touch of gypsy in our southern lore.  I 
think this gestural thing may go back and
have that origin.  Nimrod can't explain it. 
He just knows it came down to him with the
traditions somewhere.

Nimrod is one of the profound Americans as
you will get to know him and believes in
taking a very active part.  He got  'black
lung'  when he was in the mines,  he was in
the mines for years and years  ,  like many 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.