CAJUNS-LOMAX   -10

see they treat it in a completely new way.  (SNORTS)  That
could be one way of doing that piece.
     I thought there was, this idea of
[see][UNCLEAR] Nova Scotians driven out of their, cruelly
driven out of their lands in, in Arcadia which is a Micmac
word meaning fertile country, finally landed in Louisiana.
And this, they recognized the place.  This was also swampy
country.  This was also a country of, of seafood on every
hand and deep woods with animals to trap.  Places where you
could build your little farm right along the edge of the
water and, and get both game and fish.  Where you could
travel by boat rather than by, by road.  And where, and a
wonderful cattle country as well.  It, the first job that
the Cajuns had was as cattlemen.  They were asigned a, a
stretch of land and given cattle on the ground that within
six years they would return the original herd to the owner
with a dividend of calves, and then they could keep the
rest.  And this suited them fine.  They settled down and
pretty soon they spread their herds out across the prairies
and were actually the first American cowboys.  This happened
before the, this happened almost a hundred years before the
Texans began to drive their herds up the Chisholm Trail.
And we have the music of those days in all kinds of
fragments of Cajun songs.
     In fact, when my father and I went there in
1933 very, a couple of very naive Texans, to make records of

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.