CAJUN   -24
shared our love and I wouldn't have lived any other way, no
other way.
AL  What kind of work did you do?
     :  Well, as, as a share cropper my father
moved from, say from one farm to the next.  He was a man of
his word and he, we lived in those old, what you call, I
guess shanty houses.  And I can remember the time when it
would rain and we pick up all the furniture and there was
one corner of the house that it wouldn't rain in it.  So we'd
haul all the furniture in that part of the house. And my
daddy would, would always say okay, I'll, I'll go, I'll go
farm for you but you're going to fix the house and you're
going to do this and this and this and this.  Okay.  It was
all agreed by the, by the landlord.  And my dad was a hard
worker.  So were we.  And he was a good farmer.  And by the
time the harvest, the next winter, they still didn't fix the
house so he picked up and go to the next house, the next
land, landlord.  And we did that for many years.  But we, we
farmed whatever you needed to eat, like Irish potatoes,
sweet potatoes, sugar cane, corn, popcorn, rice, and you
name it and we grew it.  If it didn't grow you didn't have
it.  And the money crop was cotton.  And that's how we were
brought up.
AL  Were there any rhymes or songs about
the, about the economic conditions [BACKGROUND NOISE] about

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.