[*724 4122.*]

ROLL 2	   5

and various of them were kind of 
specialist, Presley Hicks makes the 
most beautiful dulcimers in the 
mountain, they go all over the 
world. You’ll see him carving here 
and then Ray Hicks, who is 7 feet 
tall or Just close to it,  they used 
to love to invite Ray to Barnraising 
because they didn’t have to have a 
ladder.  Well Ray is the greatest of 
all American folk tale tellers and 
he not only tells stories of 
Adventures of Jack and the 
Beanstalk, but there are many more 
stories of that in the tradition but 
he embelishes them and they grow 
under his talent.

He can make them last ten minutes or 
two hours, just at will, like all 
the really great story tellers of 
the past and Sal, his sister is as 
good a story teller as he is so what 
I did to get the family together on 
the front porch of the family house, 
that looks out over the grandest of 
mountains you could see Virginia, 
Tennessee and North Carolina from 
their back porch.

INTERVIEWER	  What is he doing now?

MAN	This is really awful. . .off mike.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.