CAJUNS-LOMAX II   -35

little piece of that.  And we have the festival which had an
enormous impact and, and Barry is talking about that.  And
suddenly the, instead of hiding the fact they were Cajuns
and calling themselves [coon asses here], every other thing
is named Cajun.  We have those Cajun signs.  Right?  And we
have people, you know, we, we have the, the restaurant that
we've seen all these things, that's, that was a new idea, a
Cajun res, Cajun rest, that place where we did all the
shooting has got nothing but Cajun food and Cajun bands.  We
could go into there again.  And we have [Ducey] making his
speech.  Barry making his speech, you know.  All this stuff
in, in, and we have a, we have, we can use the, we can use
the crash pad there.  Right?  Jazzing it up.  Going hot.
And then we could come back to the, and we could do that, it
seems to me, as counterpoint, especially toward the end of
that huge crowd pouring into [Mamou].  I mean that's the
biggest crowd ever, anybody ever saw.  I mean there the,
the, the parade comes home.  It all comes back home.  See?
     I think that's a great end.  That's a four
star finish.  I'm very proud of this as a script idea.  You
and Jeffrey never even men, mentioned a mumble at me but. . . .
[END OF RECORDING

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.