LOMAX
PAGE 166

A (continued)
[*16 04.51.00*] that could be both percussive and melodic.

Then quite late, quite late, ah, in the ah- 
away aft - at the beginning of the 20th 
century, as the blacks began to arrive in Lo 
- in mass to work in the mines, learning the 
guitar, learning the blues, and ah making the 
blues their own thing. I mean, not necessarily 
seeing the blues as something that's native to 
them now, and have for a long time. So you 
have the 3 piece orchestra.

Firstyou had gui - you had fiddle and a banjo 
playing together. That was the combo for a 
while. And then the guitar arrived, and you 
had the, the fiddle, banjo, and guitar combo.
[*16 05.30.00*]
About that time, this music began to be 
recorded and to go on, on, on radio. There was 
feedback and there was immense excitement. 
The first, the first recording of mountain 
music ah was made reluctantly by the recording 
director and ah it sold several hundred 
thousand records, and suddenly [LAUGHS] kept- 
took the recording company out of the hole - 
it was so popular.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.