ROLL 2                             12
jump on a boy like a dog on a bone.

..and Stanley sings a good one here 
about

Chickens are crowing on Sourwood
Mountains.
So many pretty girls, I can't count
them.
Eh ho dee idle lum ba day.

A typical kind of dance song
refrain, well these old song
refrains go back to the Irish
diddling, when there was no
instrument, they diddled the dance
they diddled with their mouths and
then to the Celtic "push to bale"
they call it, the mouth music and
there in the Hebrides when I visited
it it was still going full sway and
you could have a whole evening dance
with three men lalling or diddling
in the "push to bale" and the text
of one of those,  I have here it is 
really a gives you a notion that the 
surrealism of America had its roots
in a very old system.  Here is a 
translation from a Celtic push to 
bale song;

And you should have seen the eel,
with his pipes playing a broadside.
2 :17: 33 : 18

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.