CAJUN CULTURE VO   -19

Civil War when the Cajuns rejected the idea of fighting for
slaves they didn't have, and often formed Jay Hawker bands
and fought both sides.  Out of this period of turmoil when
blacks and whites both, during the period of reconstruction
where both black and white Cajuns suffered horribly, came a
tradition of violence that may have animated the whole
frontier.  Barry Ancelet tells us the story of a typical
frontier fight.
     The formation, the dance formation we see
here is this, is an old one from, because the traditional
one. . .okay.  This favorite dance formation of the Cajuns
where one man manipulates two women is very frequent in
Norway and Sweden, west coast of France and Scotland, an
area where men are, there's often a shortage of men.
They're away at sea.  There's pirates, fisherman, voyagers,
over, so, soldiers in overseas colonies.  And this condition
continued in, among the Cajuns who were, were seamen,
workers on offshore oil rigs, and soldiers of fortune all
over the place.  [MIKE OFF]
     Look up into the, the left side of the
Louisiana-French triangle.  You'll see a circle around the
[UNCLEAR] where [Breslow] thinks that Cajun, modern Cajun
culture has coalesced.  This area, he says, just after the
British conquest of Alabama, see there came a dispossessed
black soldiers who had been, who were French speaking
[Shataws].  And they were moved into this area.  And they
opened that land.  And what were their names?  [Fonteneau,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.