BARRY ANCELET                                                             -2

in Arcadia that English had won, the English had won this 
colony and the French were there.  And they had all these
English colonists who wanted to come and live there.  And
where do you think the French colonists stayed? I mean they 
stayed on the best lands.  Of course they did.  They'd even
made dykes to claim land from the sea.  And they, they were
excellent farmers and hard working farmers.  They were doing
well.  And they had all the best lands.  And so when the
English won it,  I mean they couldn't sit around and stick 
their colonists in the rocks and the mountains and the 
woods,  you know.
        So sooner or later, by the 1750s Charles, 
Gov. Charles Lawerence took over and,  and, and his, his 
expressed intent was to rid the colony of the Arcadians and,
and disbursed them on purpose.  They sent them all over the 
world,  you know.  Some of the Cajuns were sent to the 
colonies,  but many were sent to the,  the [Maweens]. the
Falkland Islands and, and some of them were sent to [Cay,
Canyon,  Guyana], to the most un-God, some were sent to 
Corsica.  Some were repatriated to France.  I've always
mused at what the Cajuns in Corsica must have done. And
sooner or later of course they ended up here.  And they, 
the, the important part of the story, the important point
of that story is that when they, when they arrived in 
Louisiana, they set to reestablishing the sense,  the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.