7

it off the air and that is how the whole
thing began.

04:13:4305

Looking at Frank here.  Frank is leading a
very fruitful life.  He has been made a 
teacher of folks song and folk music and
folk lore in the North Carolina schools,  it
is a job that needs to happen in every part
of the world .  Here we have the real
person who really knows the tradition,
going around telling folk tales and 
teaching the songs to kids in his State and
he is doing vast good.  He is very shy and 
very very diffident but very very earnest
and talented as you can see .  He sings in 
the quiest way that really prevailed in
these mountain cabins.  These folks didn't
sings their heads off .  They sang gently
and quietly very often and this sort of 
banjo accompanyment is typical of the kind
of music that these very genteel
mountaineers made for themselves.

04 . 14 . 65 . 12
Frank's father was a remarkable man .  I 
never knew him but the Warner's stayed in
touch with him and helped the family and
went back every year and they found new
songs and gradually explored that end of
the mountain and a tremendous treasure of
folklore turned up from this Proffit family
and their relatives, the Hicks.

Now the Hicks family, shall we go on from 
Frank, have you enough of him?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.