LOMAX NARRATION #4   -10

Mike Ducet and I found an early version of this music.  The
[frotoir] composed of a, of a stove top rasped with a nail.
The accordion no longer playing a European melody but only
some strange strain of African scale, magically squeezed out
with his fingers.  How did this music, this African style
last in the new world translated into a new language on new
instruments?  My guess is that it was along the stream of
choral singing.  Years before in, one dark night in western
Louisiana I heard a [zidaco] song performed purely vocally
by three young men sitting on a, three young men, clapping,
stamping, growling out a true African song in the French
language.  They were playing for a kind of semi religious
dance where a file of couples sashayed counter clockwise in
true African style around a church.  This was a permitted
entertainment in, in the prot, black Protestant Cajun
community.  You couldn't have instruments in the church but
the singers, you could have dance music that was sung so
long as you didn't cross your feet.  The went on in to sing
about. . .[UNCLEAR] I've forgotten.
     The, the voices are used like instruments, 
growling, screeching.  But in, in, in an incredible kind of
polyrhythm with each other and with the instru, with the,
clapped and stamped rhythm.  Their song is still alive, as
this front porch group shows us.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.