CAJUNS-LOMAX            -7

French administration learned to loath them because they
couldn't cheat them.  They couldn't bully them.  They were
the independent Cajuns.  And they sailed again soon with the
help of the Spanish for Louisiana, which needed settlers
along the Mississippi valley, a difficult area full of
Indians who were very advanced.  And the French settlers
who, and other people who had come there earlier had, were
looking for an easy life.
     But it wasn't an easy life.  They needed some
tough pioneer type, some, some hard working people to, to
open up the country.  And they were welcomed with open arms,
boat loads of them from all over the, the Caribbean where
they had refuged.  But they were, I, I must go back now
because these French Huguenots had a tremendous drive.  And
they actually opened up  the whole continent for settlement,
a whole northern park.  Their fur traders, after they had
[COUGS] settled the coast, ran the rivers right across the
whole of the northern part of, of, through the St. Lawrence
and the Great Lakes.  And they carried their fur trade clear
to the Pacific.  Along their way they sang the [courez de
bois] songs which, which we believe are the ancesters of the 
cowboy songs.  They always sing a [yupa yupa].  And our cow,
our, the first cowboy song I ever heard went yupa, yupa yea.
I think it probably is a [courez de bois] song.  And anyway,
they left their settlements.  They came down the Mississippi.
They left their settlement in, in, in Missouri.  They opened

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.