-9-

[*select as v/o*]
the tune against that, normally the drone 
is down at the bottom, that is not the way
it is in the high lonesome tradition where
the top of the register is where all the 
expressivity is and not many people have
noticed but a few that in mountain harmony,
you put a part above the melody part and in
Hillbilly harmony you have the high
lonesome tenor riding over the top of the
harmony just like the tenor drone does on
the banjo which is what gives it its
mountain sound and that is typical of what 
these incredible Scotch-Irish people did to 
everything that came to them. They took it
and shifted it around in their emotional
gears so that the banjo became the most
exquisite instrument for playing
accompanyment of medieval ballads.

I mean once they were accompanied by other
things that I am sure sounded very much
like the five string banjo but as you know
from these performances here, they just
somehow set your heart trembling, that 
ringing tenory sound and that banjo that 
Stanley makes, the heads are made of coon
skins . He actually goes out into the 
woods and kills his coons.

INT  Can we stop.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.