CAJUNS-LOMAX  -16

arise.  And we have, we can have Canray and, and those
people talking.  Times were not, not easy on both sides.
The Cajuns had a, the Cajun farmer was a, had been edged out
of the new economic developments when they, when the, he was
doing pretty well as a rancher and small farmer in the
praries around [Crowley].  And suddenly appeared on the
horizon the successful German wheat farmers who brought in
huge tractors, I mean huge harvesting machines and a new
mechanized method of farming.  And he was put out of
business and pushed into the back woods again.  He lost his
land, lost his prosperity to these, this new farmer.  And
even though he was, absorbed the Germans because everybody
married a Cajun girl if they could marry one.  And, and the
children grew up speaking French and going to the [vizez]
like they have, the, the Cajun French culture suffered
another setback, as it had so many, has had problems so many
times.  The, the old fashioned retired French life in the,
in the swamps wasn't good enough.
     So, where was I now?  As everywhere the
French settled down they, they kept their big family
networks.  It's told that when they wanted to have a party
on Saturday night the man who was having the party would get
on his front porch and just holler up and down the bayou.
And since al the houses were along the bayou, within a
minute everybody would know that it's house.  The holler
would pass from house to house all the way down the line.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.