Tape 1356 (end), Mr. FOUGET

          FOUGET
. . .nine, when we got out of Lubbock (?), you know.
(unintelligible). . .You ever run into a good violin, send it
to me over here.

          A. LOMAX
All right.

          FRUGE
I ain't got nothin'.

          A. LOMAX
You'd think a man who'd been playing all your time would
have a good violin.

          FRUGE
No. . .you see, me and Mark. . .they all good if you put a pick
up on 'em.   The way me and Mark play, we don't have no pick
up or nothing.   So take a violin and got it high tuned, you
know.   But mine's not that high, I always use Mark's.

          A. LOMAX
Well, tell these boys about the Mardi Gras, the way you were
going to start a while ago, will you?
          FRUGE
Well, really my Grandfather's the one who started the Mardi
Gras around here, you see.   They call it Tassou, where Mark
live over there, a little community called Tassou.   It was
all small farmers, in those days.   Cotton farmers, something
like that.   If you get married, you had a pair of mule and a 
plow, or something, you all right.   And you sharecropped,
you see.   Well, they got houses all over there, they had
dance just the other night, was just the young people, in no
time they had a house full.   Well, the house wasn't all that
big.   We played. . .when they started Mardi Gras, ny Grandpa
said, they call it "run" Mardi Gras, but they don't really
run Mardi Gras, they say "Run Mardi Gras.   Like in New
Orleans, that goes for a whole week".   Decided they was
going to run Mardi Gras for a whole week.   So they started,
it's in the wintertime, you see.   So they run the whole day
and they had to sing, they didn't have no music of any kind.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.