LOMAX-SCRATCH 3   -2

acquired the art that, the arts and the instrumentation of
Europe they transformed them into a black, into their own
tradition and made them into, and made a new kind of
rhythmic fiddling and accordion playing.  On the accordion
the right hand, the left hand was as active as the right.
Jumping and putting in a separate rhythmic voice like
another drum, drum set.  You can see it in Boisec's
performance.
      That's one kind, that's, that's. . .[MIKE OFF]
     This is the real primal Afro American musical
style of western Louisiana that must have been alive, this
was alive in the slave quarters in the. . .small Creole, black
Creole neighborhoods because they had been deprived of their
drums.  And so as they turned, as they began to learn
European instruments, the  fiddle and then later the
accordion, they poured this syncopated poly rhythmic dynamic
style into, into those, into their playing.  And that style
became poly voiced and chorus response and, and rhythmically
exciting as their vocal dance music had been.  All of this
must have happened about the time of the, all of this must
have been occurring in the melting pot, in the cage, in the
north part of the Cajun country.
     Here historians tell us there came a stream
of settlers from Alabama, black soldiers with [Choctaw]
blood, who'd formerly lived in Alabama and were moved west

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.