BJ TAPE 28, p. 48

      An' ah, he said, she said, "Jenny sent me here, ah, ah, to
kill Nancy.  An' I'm gonna ha -- an', an' I'm gonna worry 'er
'till I kill 'er.  She ain' gonna sleep."  This big thing tol'
him that.
     Great God!  They had to git up an' git it!  He knowed Jenny
had done it 'cause he learned her; he know, he know she learnt
from him diffrunt things, see?
     Said, "Jenny had sent me here."  Umm.  Jenny had paid him
to do it, you know.  Boy!
     An' brother!  'At was the time he had to go an' git it, git
it out!  He got it out, though.  Everything was all right.  Why,
gr' goo'ness alive!  An' Mrs. Singleton couldn't sleep night nor
day, couldn't res'.  Yessir.  He wa -- She was gittin' po' as a 
razor, too.
     Said, "Jenny ha' sent me here."  Heh, yessir!  Boy, he was
sumpin!  So he knowed that was sumpin' he had learn her, too,
ya know.  Hah, that she'd learnt from him, at least; that was 
                          .  Yeah!
(SINGLETON & JENNY)
     Sometime I'm. . .Ya go a little, as he said, ya git, an'
love, sumpin' or other, will hide multitudes of all fault.  An',
therefore, sometime love make you put out things in places that
you shouldn't do it.  Sometime it hurt, by an' by.  'Cause a whole
lot a times, he say, that you be talkin' to someone or  tellin'
it to someone that don't wish you well.  In the long run -- dey
may wish you well then -- in the long run, they turn right back
on ya.  Ya see.  An' if dey don't do it, dey can tell somebody
else how to do it.  An' so, so much, he said, to do an' so much
not to do.  That's true, too.  But yet an' still he, he had
enough to cover her, that he hadn't told her.  If he hadn't

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.