CAJUNS-LOMAX II   -34

Peter Seeger, George [Ween], you name it, all, everyone who
is supposed, they'd never even heard of Cajun music.  So I
said okay, we'll have to have a field worker to get it but
he has to speak French, he has to be good.  But we can get a 
whole new aspect for the festival.  And we hired Ralph
[Rinzler] who is now assistant head of the Smithsonian.  He
would hardly, I had to beg him to take the job.  He was
playing banjo in a band then.  I got him to stop and to
become a full time employee of, of Newport.  And he went
down there and got Dewey Balfour and some others and brought
them to Newport and they were a huge hit.  You've heard
Dewey tell about that, right?  And so suddenly, Cajun music
was news in Louisiana.
     But he followed that up by going back and
making sure that the music got used in some festivals.
Three years later the legislature adopted a proposal that
Cajun, that French should be taught in, in Louisiana schools
directly because of this thing.  Suddenly, French Louisiana
woke up to its reality.  And the, the broadcasts had already
started then.  Right?  [Revon] had already started.  Other
people were doing other things.  I wasn't alone.  But this
is, all began to [broil up].  And suddenly you had a French
institute backed with, from Paris and from Canada.  And
people were teaching French.  And, and you hear the young
girls talking about that .  And we have one of their, you
know, broad, you know, dramatic broadcasts, right?  A

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.