ROLL 1        
14

The prettiest eyes, the daintiest 
hands.
I love the ground whereon she stands."

[*01:18:39:17*]
A mountain poem. [* ] *]  And that is what
they took with them and the fact 
that when they were discovered they
had all this puzzled everybody very
much because here were the people
who sometimes didn't have shoes, who
were living in log cabins, with
their pigs right next door to them
and sometimes in the same house
because this is the way things have
been in Europe with pigs, since time
immemorial.  You have to look after
your pigs, you know, they are really
part of the family and you count on
them heavy for your meat supplies
and there is a wonderful quote in
here about how it happened and how
they got that way.  It says . .damn
where is this thing?
[*01: 19 : 29 : 08 .*]



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.