ROLL 2    2

and in a way there began there one
of the great...

....What I want to talk about now is
the family tradition.

crew chat.

[*STAN HICKS. best after college on way into Hicks & [?prog] in general*]  [*IN*]

MAN   Well there you see me walking down a 
typical modern North Carolina road
way up in the Smokeys, we are about
oh, 4000 feet near, Boon, North
Carolina and I am looking up to go
and see Stanley Hicks who is a
member of a family that came from
Northern Ireland and has just
endless amounts of stories and
ballads and dance traditions. I've 
heard about Stanley and he has heard
about me, he knows I am coming. I've 
telephoned him, he had a 'phone. So 
we are hollering him down here on
the , there he comes. Now this shows
you what happens in the
mountaineers, this tradition isn't 
static. It is growing and Stanley
turns out to tell me a story that he
just made up a couple of days
before, just in anticipation of my
coming.

Well, the family tradition is, I 
don't know, I don't know what to do 
about this.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.