5

as I said the mountains, there are 70,000 
square miles of beautiful tangled green 
hills allowed this British tradition time 
to re-shape itself.  While it was being cut 
to pieces by the industrialization of Great 
Britain, it was finding a new home here, 
reforming itself, taking on a new life on 
the frontier, of life out of the corn 
fields and out of whiskey stills and out of 
the feuds and out of the loneliness of 
living and the difficulties of living in a 
new land.  Most people don't understand 
Americans because they don't know how 
frightening it has been to leave home 
completely and pull up your roots and face 
the wilderness, because the wilderness was 
exhilarating and terrifying, especially 
difficult for the women of course but the 
mountains provided a little bit of space 
time for a new culture to grow and the 
results are I think splendid things that 
have made life much better in this country 
and I think are going to be a factor in the 
future culture of the world.

For instance the Australian aborigines I 
understand favorite music is country 
music.  In the war, World War II when we 
were reaching out to broadcast to China 
back of Chang Kai Chek's battle lines, we 
used my Kentucky mountain fiddle records, 
solo unaccompanied Fiddle and the Chinese 
loved those records, that was the one thing 
we could find that they liked.  They didn't 
like jazz at all, they liked that solo 
unaccompanied fiddle.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.