LOMAX NARRATION #4   -4

     This was a period of, of bitter moral, of
bitter, bitter moral and religious controversy.  The
Catholic church was struggling against the reformation.  And
in France there was this horror of the massacre and
persecution of the Huguenots.  Western France was heavily
Protestant.  And even when they officially fore swore their
allegiance to the Protestant religion and be, they, they
were still Huguenot Catholics.  The, the ter, the official,
the conservative forces, religious forces, continued to 
press on them.  And thousands fled the country.  Thousands
more from the vanguard of the, of the settlers of the news,
new world.  And they were among the best people of France,
merchants and, and intellectuals and, and ambitious
tradesmen and, and vigorous peasants who wanted to find a 
new place for themselves.
     The population that it gave rise to, finally
gave rise to, the Cajuns of Louisiana, came from around a 
little town named [Ludon].  The place, a place of, where a
terrible religious, a place that had once, was once the
scene of terrible religious persecution, and written about
in Alex Huxley's. . .THE DEVILS.  The atmosphere still hangs
around it, it's crooked streets and its strange [UNCLEAR],
its strange craftsmen. . . .no, its strange handicrafted
cathedral.  Here the Cajuns actually, the, here the people

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.