-7 

snow and all kinds of places, he is showing
his foot skill and everyone is fascinated
because you know the Irish traditions of 
foot dancing is unequalled in its
complexity and the real native dance of
North West Europe is solo,  solo step
dancing by males to show off their prowess, 
they are the returned hunter, you see and 
that is true again all the way across the
Arctic and it peaks with Fred Astaire
right, it continues with Fred Astaire into
vaudeville and in the mountains and the
whole frontier, in the lumber camps, the
lumberjacks used to dance in their spiked
shoes and sometimes just for sport, they
would go right deep and pull up a whole
board from the bar room floor with a twist
of their ankles and the mountaineers liked
this type of dance because again it
represented the individual who was what the
community depended on, the hunter, the
fisher.
[*06.17.47.22*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.