CAJUNS-LOMAX   -22

bilateral, both hands equally active.  And that's
particularly noticeable if you look at the accordian player.
See, here's Bois Sec.  And his left hand is doing just as
much if not more than his right hand.  That's his rhythm
hand.  And that accordian is jumping all over the place with
that, all, that complicated left hand rhythm.  This is also
an African thing, as we know.
     Quite contrastive to this white player here
whom you notice is, the accompanying hand is just moving
gently back and forth to the beat.  But there's not all this
shift of movement and, and syncopation.
     And so even though the, the blacks adopted
the solo singing with accompanyment style which was
basically a European thing, they put their own mark of, of
sophistica, of syncopation and polyrhythm into it.  Another
thing they did that was interesting, they, they sang songs
of, that had a European kind of melodic feel to them, but
the voices were, they cooed rather than moaned.   Their
voices were open and, and playful.  There was a laughing
quality to it.  Or else a, a, a crying quality rather than
a, than a whining quality.  They, the nasality wasn't there.
And the voice played around.  It didn't always take the
same, it was a playful voice, again, typical of the African
singer.  And so the blacks took up the European song style,
the accordian which is a European instrument, the fiddle, a
European instrument, and transformed it in their own vein.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.