CAJUNS-LOMAX  -19

cattlemen.  They [fin], then they came from France where the
mounted rider had been the symbol of everything that was
exciting and important and wonderful.  And the man on a 
horseback was, was the man who ruled.  And of course in
America he was the man who could move, could run things,
could steal things, could get away with everything.  He's our
hero.  He was in the Cajun country, too.
     So, they had the fastest quarter horses in
America down there.  They brought the best Arabian blood and
the best [Neuvian] blood and they mixed and they, their
opponents could outrun anybody.  And they had match races,
just two horses at a time.  And every, and they, anything
went.  Any kind of doctoring of, and, and cheating about the
horses age, nobody cared.  And the amazing thing at these
races, blacks and whites mixed together and still do because
the blacks had their own horses and talked to each other in
a way that was unique in the south as far as man to man is
concerned.
     And most fascinating of all, nearby in a
little town called [Villez, Ville Plotte], they put on, they
had simulated tournaments with knights with the young men
dressed up in, in aluminum painted clothes called the
knights of, of the cotton patch and the knights of this and
that.  And they, instead of riding against each other  they 
rode a semicircular course and the idea was to spear off the
rings as they passed a series of rings hanging from, from


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.