CAJUNS-LOMAX   -20

guideposts along the way.  And the guy who got the seven
posts, his fair lady was declared the queen of the carnival.
This is a tournament.  Such affairs were given all the way
through the south.  In Virginia, my father west Tex, in
south Texas, south, sorry, in central Texas, used to go to
those affairs when he was a boy.  The French, the horse
French, the European horse culture continuing itself.  But
again with a European background, Medieval background.
     Well, over on the black side of the fence
things weren't quite so good.  Wages were very low, as
Canray can tell you.  The black child may, might even feel
afraid to go to town.  His parents wouldn't let him go to
town because he might get shot up in these wild places where
everybody carried a gun and, and wll what we might also,
previously talk about duels.  The old French custom of
dueling lasted in the Cajun country and, and the big tall
tale is about dueling.
     Basically there wasn't law in these places.
If you had a personal grudge fight all you had to do is go
out of, go out of town and you could, you could kill each
other by the dozens and the law wouldn't bother you.  Just
mustn't disturb the peace of the city streets.  [LAUGHS]
Then you grabbed on two ends of a bandana handerchief and
held on, each man with a Bowie knife and hacked away until
the last one hit the floor, 'till the best man hit the
floor, I mean the man who lost hit the floor.  And then the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.