CAJUNS-LOMAX   -21

survivor got to dance with the girl they were quarreling
about at the dance.  Another French custom transformed into
a western, you know, a western style event with the bandana
handerchief.
     The, the black social events were, were
different in feeling than the French a bit.  There was,
there was more laughter.  There was more camaraderie.  And
listen to this crowd here where everyone is almost talking
at once but yet nobody is interrupting each other.  And
listen to them singing this song.  They, they, there's,
every verse, every verse is smiled over, chuckled over.
There's a group feeling here that's very African in
character.  And although they're singing in French, Medieval
[bow], the, strange the blacks kept the, kept on the oldest
songs, as Canray can tell you.  (CLEARS THROAT)
     And here you have the survival of this, of
the group quality with, with syncopations and with holes
left in the music so that another person can join in.  The
French fiddle playing is full of little pauses so that you
can hear the accordian come in or, or the triange be heard.
And note the way the, when the body, the player is not
holding his body rigid and playing with the ends of his
fingers.  He's weaving his body and bowing and every, every
little stroke has a body motion to it.  And then you hear
all the slides that are coming in.  He's sliding his hand up
and down the, the fiddle string.  The African approach is


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.