[*BANJO*]
LOMAX
PAGE 153 

A     (continued) 
But again they adapted what they had from
black sources, but changed it mightily so that
their electric guitar was a way of, of getting
another melodic instrument to the game, and
not another rhythmic one.

Q     PROMPT

[*of FAIRCHILD 
BANJO-STYLE
claw-hammer.*]

A     Ah, back in the heart of ah, of the um - 
One of the other things that happened to the
banjo was - well I, I did say one thing about
the banjo, and that is, this claw hammer style
is, is all down,down, down with the back of
the thumbnail, with the thi - thumb plucking
up.  But ah, [ as the banjo began to be ad - 
adapted to this ah Scots Irish European
tradition, the fingers began to move and to 
play the melody more and more.  And first
there were 2 fingers, and then there were 3 
fingers, and in some cases 4 fingers.  But - 
and this - what this meant to the mountaineer 
was more speed, which is - we Europeans ah
we Europeans associated speed with virtuosity,
the faster ah the more virtuoso, the mortuo
- more - the faster the mo - more virtuosity - 

[*SPEED*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.