LOMAX INTERVIEW
Roll [4] 3.
03:01:01:01
lomax
03:01.42.01

There is one little piece I wanted to have
in here, I am just going to do it right now
O.K. These migrants from Ireland had many 
songs about going to wild Americay. There 
is one in particular about a girl who had
plighted her troth to John Riley and he
disappeared from her memory and he was gone
and this strange fellow comes up to her and
tries to get her to run off with him and 
she won't do it because she has been 
faithful to John Riley and then he shows
her half of a ring that they had split 
between them and the last two stanzas are
just purely early Americana.

Hold it a second.

If you be he and your name be Riley, I'll 
go with you to some distant shore and I'll
sail over to Pennsylvanie adieu to friends
for ever more. They locked their hands and 
hearts together and to the church house
they did go. They got married.. no sorry

[*3:03:20:18*]
She says "I'll not go with you to 
Pennsylvanie. I'll not go to that distant 
shore, for my heart's with Riley and I 
can't forget him; oh shit.

I'll get it tomorrow.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.