BJ TAPE 12, p.11

     So this Sattiday night, I...Rosalie, she with this nice girl
called, ah, 'Lizabeth.  She -- an' 'Lizabeth had a nice father,
you know, an' jus' a nice fam'ly of peoples that she could, I. I
could trust her to spend a night with 'em some time  'Lizabeth
come an' spen' a night with her, sometime.  All right.  That was
in Miama.  They startin' out there courting.  Rosalie come there
to eatin'.  She the sharp side a the world.  Sharper than I ever
woulda been.  Didn' know how to do it when I wa' lil'.  Said to
me, said she wanted to go to the dance down to another girl's
house named Rosalie.  Right down below us down there.  An' so I
said, well, I know Rosalie had nice parties.  If anybody start
anything, she makes 'em -- she'd rather close up than have fusses
in her house.  So I tol' 'er all right.
     Sumpin' said to me, said, "You can go to the party while she
goin' down there."  See?  "Don't let her know you goin' to the
party."
     All right.  She -- I said, "Who goin' wit' you?"
     So she told me "Lizabeth was doin' an' this boy what had asked
me for her comp'ny an' 'Lizabeth boy friend.  And so, that was
just nice.  "Lizabeth's father, well, he, he was out there in, in 
the car.  But I didn' know whe'(whether) he know what was happening,
 an' I know he didn't, ya know.  An' since then I know it.
Well, I was satisfied then, ya know?  So, I tol' 'em all right.
     So that night they dressed up an' they go on down to the
party.  'Lizabeth come over, ya know, they dressed; they went
down to Rosalie's.  Nother Rosalie th'was givin' the party.  She
was on the same street.  Well, it wasn' nothin' -- it wasn' more'n
two blocks from me.  So, I didn't go down to Rosalie's to see was
they down there.  'Cause I wasn' worried about that; I knowed they

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.