CAJUN CULTURE VO   -6

the macho stories about hunting.  And this is where French, 
the fantasy life grew over snorts of booze, back of the
house. 
     A lot of these stories had to do with
violence.  Instead of cops and robbers on TV the people
talked about the hand-to-hand combat, fights over who was
the bully of the woods.  I remember when I was in Europe it
was still the custom in villages for the village champion to
walk out to the edge of the village land and, and whoop, and
say here I am with my bare fists and my wooden shoes ready
to take on any champion that the next village can send
against me.  That still happened in the Cajun country.  A
man would, the local champion would walk into the dance hall
and say who's around that thinks they can challenge me.  And
if a new man walked in he had to decide that he would either
be quiet or take the local bully on.  They called them
[boulez, boulez].  The French word, [bullies] came from the
French settlements.  And there are hundreds of stories about
these fights to the finish.  Probably very much exaggerated.
     When they took the cattle to market in New
Orleans as they were doing way back in the beginning of the
19, 19th century, they had to raft them across stretches of
water often.  And here they were continuing a custom that
they had known very well in, in the marshes of [Ande].  And
this was swamp country and these people were, of course were
not only cattle people, they were swamp rats.  They knew all
the, they lived, they lived off the rich bounty of fish and,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.