CAJUN CULTURE VO   -15

year.  And I said well what about Cajun?  They said what's
that?  Up to that point in 1964 nobody'd heard of Cajun
music.  So we got a, our field worker named Ralph [Rinzler],
to go down and at my behest find some Cajun music.  [Dewey
Balfour] and several more came to the festival and there
were [BACKGROUND NOISE]. . .a. . .knockout hit.  They made
headlines.  The whole auditorium stood up and cheered them
'cause their music put together the blues, French and
country music.  The crowd loved it.  They went back home
and, and [BACKGROUND NOISE]  after that Cajun people didn't
put their own music down anymore.  And the festivals began
to [UNCLEAR] and Cajun, the people [who] invited Cajun music
began to increase.  They made, they played in Paris.   They
played in, all over French Canada.  And the home folks began
to glow with pleasure.  In, three years after that the
Louisiana legislature passed a law that French should be
taught in every school where it was a compliment of French
speakers in the parish.  And the Cajun cultural revival was
on [UNCLEAR] is everybody knows by Cajun music.  Something
like that.
     I, I might as well claim my claim to fame
because it's the case.
     :  Yeah.
LOMAX  It really happened.
     :  Good.
LOMAX  That's what you do when you're a 
folklorist.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.