-2-
eventually on the gallows, singing a song
of his own death that he had composed in
prison. This was quite a common custom at
that time. There were many American
ballads that were actually composed by the
condemned men while he was in jail, asking
for mercy and compassion but Tom Dooley
didn't ask for any compassion because it is
said that he was shielding the woman that
he loved. He was going with two women Anne
Milton and Laura Foster and Anne learned
that she had acquired a social disease,
syphillis from Tom and that it was
probably, the source was probably Laura
Foster, so they made a conspiracy which
was rather elaborate and Tom got poor Laura
to meet him in a lonely place by promising
to marry her and when he got there, he
according to this folk legend, stuffed her
own scarf down her throat and held her
while Anne rushed out of her hiding and
stabbed her in the belly with a knife
because it was her intention to kill
Laura's baby as well as Laura.

[*04:04:27:07*]

Now fate overtook these criminals because 
they lost their nerve and buried her in a
shallow grave high on the hillside and rain
came and washed a lot of the dirt off this
poor lady and somebody found her fairly
soon, she still had the colourful scarf
that she had been killed with on her
person and that is what, according to the
story I heard, that attracted their
attention.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.