11.

Sunflower streets.

Issaquena street stretches two blocks.  Its buildings are mostly
one storey brick and frame structures.  There are retail drygood and
hardware stores, rooming houses,  restaurants, and personal service
shops.  On this street the Negroes move back and forth with little 
intention of ever buying anything.  If they buy anything at all, the
purchases will be limited to a few loose cigarettes, bottles of beer,
or candies.  The music on the street comes chiefly from the "juke
boxes" in the restaurants.  The Savoy theater is the main attraction
on this street.

Where Issaquena ends, Fourth street begins.  In physical appearance
the buildings are dull, brick structures.  This street has more
Negro operated business establishments than any other street, but
there are also the Jewish, Italian, and Chinese owned establishments.
On this street are located the Dipsie Doodle, the Methodist and
Baptist churches, Sanders Drug store, Messenger's pool room and cafe,
the Fourth Street Cab stand, and the G.T.Thomas Block.  Messenger's 
pool room, where Negroes and a few Mexicans play pool or listen to 
the "juke box" is a favorite stopping place for Negroes.  As far as
the plantation Negroes are concerned the Dipsie Doodle, a cafe and
beer tavern, is probably the most frequented and popular place.  On
the opposite side of the Dipsie Doodle are two rather large and
impressive Negro churches.

Sunflower street is the "roughest" of all the streets.  The major
attraction on this street is the "Tommy Place", since this is the
only place in Clarksdale where Negro youth are allowed to dance.



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.