-3-

[*04:05:05:04*]

Tom Dooley has a good deal to do with our
broadcast because it comes to us from the
family called the Proffits. A friend of
mine named Frank Warner and his wife became
ballad hunters in American about the same
time that my father and I did and they had
a little portable recording machine that
they took in the mountains in 1938 and the 
first song that they sang was Tom Dooley as
performed by Frank Proffit who they
proceeded to cultivate and become main
friends with over the whole life of both of
them. They were always in touch and they
helped the Proffit family a lot, it was a
hard time in the mountains in those days
and Frank was a remarkable man, he was a
philosopher and a song composer, some of
the songs you will hear on the programme,
that he actually composed but it was he who
sang and shaped and arranged the version of
Tom Dooley the we all know. I learned it
from Frank who was a big buddy of mine and
we got together with singing sessions with
Carl Sanberg and other folks of that dim
day when only a few folks cared for ballads
and I learned Tom Dooley and I was touring
the country then and I sang it wherever I
went. Its a great ballad, telling
something as tersely as any song ever told
any story and it was my arrangement of
their arrangement that was picked up by the
Kingston Trio who proceeded to kind of
massacre it in college boy fashion but made
it very popular and it is really a world
[*04:07:04:04*]
song but that is where it came from. We are

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.