BARRY ANCELET   -9

in the prairies and the bayous and far away from everybody,
no communication with anybody else and they just loved it.
They reestablished their society almost in secret without
meaning to.  It was, it was years and years and years in, in
the remaking.  And by the time anybody noticed it, you know,
in New Orleans or Baton Rouge or, or along the river in the
colonial and then the territorial government area.  The Cajun
society had so well reestablished itself that it was the
melting pot in south Louisiana.  People who moved here.
Germans, Spanish, even the American Indians who were pushed
out of their places farther east and moved here like the
[Pishata], they all learned French.  The Anglo-Americans who
trickled in all through the 19th Century, all learned
French.  Even the French who came to Louisiana escaping
revolutions in France learned Cajun French, learned the way
of speaking here.  They began to identify themselves as
Cajuns.  And. . .
LOMAX  And of course they had to adapt
themselves to a whole new climate, a whole new ecology.
ANCELET  Once again they learned how to
farm, once again from some of the Indians who were around,
from some of the people who were here before, the Creoles,
the planters who had slaves.  They learned how  to, they
knew, learned new farming techniques, new fishing
techniques, how to put up with the heat, how to fend off the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.