Time Code:
Tape:  1317  Carl Brasseau  [*AK*]
Carl:  The Patterson Settlement had a very profound impact
on the development of the Cajun culture here in Louisiana.'
The first Cajuns were allowed to settle in the prairie
areas which are out in the Southwestern quadrant of the
state.  At the time of the Cajun settlement, open grassland
that stretched roughly from the large swamps here aournd th
Jackfly(?) River all the way to the Texas border.  The
Cajuns were sent here specifically to become ranchers, and
by the 1770s, just about 5 or 6 years after their arrival
here, they began to drive small herds of cattle to New
Orleans.  In fact, this area of Louisiana, this Southweste
quadrant, became the major source of beef in late-18th
century Louisiana.
AL: Carl, that really rings a bell with me, because the firs
song that I recorded for the Library of Congress when I
came here in 1934 was a cowboy song, sung partly in French
and partly in English.  I was from Texas, and I felt rathe
proprietary about everything pertaining to cowboys, not
knowing that cowboying actually began earlier in Louisiana
then it did in Texas.  As I've looked into the matter, I'v
realized that your ancestors have been vaceros, or cowboys
from the very beginning.  (unint.) are cattle country, and
cattle was the big thing in the lives of the Nova Scotia
people.  Of course here, everyone is oriented towards
ranching & riding cattle.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.