LOMAX NARRATION #4   -8

song find in Texas.  And we thought, frankly, that, that
these Cajuns were, were simply pulling our leg.   We didn't
know that they were cattlemen.  And we didn't know that the,
their songs were simply larded with caiyuppies and with the,
who pa ti yi yeow, kinds of sounds which were, it turns out,
old French expressions for handling cattle.  And we, we
these were, the whoopie ti yi yo that, little doggie song
and the ti yuppa song were were the most distinctive of
American cowboy songs that my father and found and published
in 1905.  And here it looks like perhaps they had a French
origin.  Well, that's possible since the French were herding
cattle systematically and driving them to market, as we
heard, in, before the 18th century at the west, at the
eastern edge of Cajun Louisiana.
      Something like that.
     :  It's great.  That's cute.
LOMAX  The, the American cowboy, the
French American cowboy is a far different person than the
old French country [Vasseur] who handled cattle from a foot
directed by their mounted knightly masters.  In America they
too became knights on horseback.  And thus a popular pass
time arose all through the south, the tournament, where the
folk dressed like knights and contested in mark, mock
tournaments honoring the, the lady of their choice. . .and 
staff.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.