Roll 59 Frank Proffitt; Stan and Hattie 1

Frank: This is a little ditty, called "Pretty Little Miss," it's been
around a pretty long while, was one of my father's favorites. Here I'm
gonna cut loose on it here...(plays, sings)"Fly 'round, my pretty...."

AL: If it hadn't been for Frank Proffitt and his folks, America would have
been a much less rich place in terms of melodies and folk songs. The most
famous song was of course "Tom Dooley", gone all the way around the world.
You said it changed the family a lot...not really, because the Proffitts
were really sterling mountain people and they didn't -- they got a little
money in their pocket, but they kept on being who they were. They kept on
singing the songs and telling the stories, and being always the wonderful
folks that they'd always been. Frank is now teaching in the North Carolina
schools. He's takin' the art of his family and the mountains down into
schools of the lowlands and showin' those children what real American folk
music and folks tales are like, and we're very proud to have him on this
program.

Frank: Thank you very much Alan.

AL: Let's do"Barbara Allen." that's the last one.

Frank: All of her, or just a couple of verses.

AL: Well, what you feel like.

Frank: (plays)

AL: This song of "died for love." This tragic story of Sweet William and
Barbara Allen is probably the most popular song that's ever been in the
English language. It's been sung inEngland, Scotland and Ireland for
several centuries and it was the favorite ballad of the pioneers, including
the people of the mountains here, including probably your family, Frank.
This is Frank Proffitt, with his marvelous and very original technique on
the dulcimer, and velvet voice that we've been listening to. He comes by
his talent naturally, his whole family were musical, they all had ballads,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.