[*6*]


Our parents' generation were made to feel that way because 
their teachers at school, whose aim it was to educate them, 
knew that at first they had to educate these children they 
had to teach them English.  So they set about to do this  t 
by eradicating the French.  They would punish for speaking 
French on the school ground.  That's universally known by 
everybody around here.  So, with each generation that has 
grown up, there are fewer and fewer people that speak the 
language.  People of my parents' age spoke French amongst 
one another but deliberately avoided speaking French to 
their children because they wanted their children because 
they wanted their childrent to learn English.  Some of us 
managed escape that because our grandparents spoke only 
French.  We wanted to speak to our grandparents so we 
deliberately spoke French.  We bypassed that whole 
eradication. 

[*gpparents 
Xr french*]

Teacher #2

Well, we did.  But there are a lot of people our age that 
don't have the same attitude.  People who just don't feel 
like it's a worthwhile endeavor to even bother to try to 
learn the language. 

Teacher #1

They never thought about it enough, I guess to realize that 
it was a problem that they just should do something about.  
But you know, the education programs in the schools, you 
know, I asked my cousin, I have several families of 
relatives who live in Lafayette, which is a fairly large 
city in Louisiana in an Acadian area, and I have a cousin 
who is sixteen or seventeen, who grew up without French 
programs in the elementary school and I asked him "do you 
consider yourself to be a Cajun?'  And he said "No.  Not 
really.  I'm an American.  I feel like I'm an American, I 
don't fool with that ."  He didn't feel like it meant 
anything to him one way or the other whether or not he was 
involved in the Cajun culture...

[*X*]

Teacher #2

To be identified as a Cajun.

Teacher #1

Right. But I asked his little brother, who was eight years 
old at the time and he was taking French in the school, and 
not just taking the language, but they present songs and 
aspects of the culture and he said "Oh yeah, yeah.  I'm a 
Cajun"  What Amanda and I do, since we both teach French in 
public high school, she is teaching Cajun French this year, 
this year I am only teaching standard French and English.  I 
was needed to teach standard French.  What we do is where

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.