-5-

singing unaccompanied, singing ballads 
unaccompanied.   Now this is something that 
most of us have forgotten, occasionally we 
got a taste of it when Dylon drops his 
guitar and sings or half speaks a verse and
we really get to hear what it is he says,
as the poet is saying to us.   or when the 
tenor in a moment of passion and intensity 
in an opera, the orchestra dies pretty much
away and he sings one of these wonderful
Italian arias, and you really get the 
message there.   Well mountain song was all
that and a good deal more because these
ballads, you see, they told very dramatic
stories, incredibly dramatic stories and
they reported dialogue, what the lady said
to the Lord and what the lover said to the
King and all that.

INT
Give me an example.

LOMAX
[*05 .10 .15 : 13*]
Every single verse had a different 
emphasis, so the melody varied from verse
to verse that was the whole art of 
ballad singing, is varying the verse to 
stanza to stanza.   Now that is what these
mountaineers kept alive into our own day
and it is going to come alive again in our 
culture, partly because an awful lot of the 
country singers have continued to do it and
a great many of the young people who have 
taken up folk singing now, Joan Baez and 
Bobby and some others have begun to realise
that is where it really is, its not just a 
simple tune and a simple text you can
make the same from the stanza to stanza.   Its

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.