BARRY ANCELET  -36
ANCELET  Well you know one of the, one of
the irritating things that, in, in most discussions about
whether, about Cajun French whether, is whether or not it's
fit for our teaching and whether or not, I think that has
nothing to do with anything.  I think that Cajun French is
simply a variety of French.  And the, the sooner that the
school system would, would realize that and admit that and
use that force, that, that's already here, the better off it
would be.
LOMAX  All languages, all cultures are,
are, are basically equal.  The all look after people from
birth to death.  And all languages have perfect expressive
characteristics.  It's just that some languages have been
chosen to be official national languages in the past and
they've had all the power and money put behind them.  And
this is one, this is one of the things that's helped to, to
destroy and diminish cultures all over the world, including
French culture and German culture, Spanish culture, where
you had all the provincial dialects destroyed for the
benefit of the central, central one.  And the Cajun language
is, is the fine, was going to be the final victim until you
and your friends intervened and began to holler loud.  And
now you're getting Cajun taught in the schools in some
places I understand.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.