Aunt Molly Jackson was a companion of my
youth really and we all learned from her
and the people there in Harlem;  this
tradition wasn't a bit sacrosanct. ,  You
could pick it up and use it for your own
defence and they did it in   a big way. 

INT
Who was Aunt Molly Jackson? 

LOMAX
She was born there in Del County and was a 
midwife and a housewife and a union
organiser.  "I am a union woman " - Oh
Christ I can't remember anything any more.
She made great songs and came to New York
and became an important cultural hero. 

#
INT 
She taught you a great deal.

LOMAX 
[*06.09. 15.18*]
Oh yes and taught the country too,  taught
the country  .  It was from then though
actually although Woody was very good
topical song maker, he caught on fire when
he heard these Kentucky songs because they
were much hotter than his were  ,  they came
out of this terrifying Harland struggle
when they fenced off a whole county and 
wouldn't let people have anything to eat
while they were striking.

INT
You went down there yourself  didn't you?

LOMAX 
I didn't go down at that time, no.  I
didn't.  Nimrod is a person out of that
whole period and it is really amazing when
you think about it,  this man who sings with
enormous passion,  songs about the crusades, 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.