7

it off the air and that is how the whole 
thing began.
{*in to Tom Dooley*}

Looking at Frank here, Frank is leading a 
very fruitful life.  He has been made a 
teacher of folk song and folk music and
folk lore in the North Carolina schools,  it
is a job that needs to happen in every part 
of the world.   Here we have the real 
person who really knows the tradition,
going around telling folk tales and 
teaching the songs to kids in his State and 
he is doing a vast good. He is very shy and
very very diffident but very very earnest
and talented as you can see.   He sings in
the quiet way that really prevailed in
these mountain cabins.   These folks didn't 
sing their heads off.    They sang gently
and quietly very often and this sort of
banjo accompanyment is typical of the kind 
of music that these very genteel 
mountaineers made for themselves.
{*good description of Frank + singing/playing style*}

Frank's father was a remarkable man.   I
never knew him but the Warner's stayed in
touch with him and helped the family and 
went back every year and they found new
songs and gradually explored that end of 
the mountain and a tremendous treasure of 
folklore turned up from this Proffit family
and their relatives, the Hicks.

Now the Hicks family, shall we go on from
Frank, have you enough of him?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.