CAJUNS-LOMAX    -4

all day long, drinking and shouting.  And the procession
goes through the, to the misty lanes of wintry Louisiana,
reminding us of the attachment of these incredible people to
their very old French heritage.
                      They came from a special part of France, from
Western France.  Western France is very much like, hmm,
Western Ireland or Western Britain.  It's low lying, marshy
country which has always launched ships.  I mean the, these
people were fishing off the coast of Nova Scotia before
Columbus discovered America really, literally.  They weren't
landing but they were fishing over there.  They knew the
northern cod rich waters of that land.  They were great
mariners these [Britons], these people from [Quatoun].
     And I went there recently with my camera to
look around.  Amazingly, it's amazing how similar it is to
the Cajun country.  Right on the borders of swamps, canals,
skiffs that look like those from the Cajun country.  And
even rafting cattle across the canals just the way that it
was done there.  And silvery farm lands, mile after mile
after mile.  But alwas was a drainage problem.  They come
from a strange place called [Loudon] which at one time was
beset by demons and was exorcised in a terrible witch trial
by a, by the Catholic church.  A man was burned at the stake
just about the time these people were leaving for, for, were
setting out to colonize the New World.  Because this is the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.