LOMAX     ……...built up a fence around the
guy?
          FONTENOT     Yeah.  He was playing in, in the
fence.  And so anyhow, they wanted to throw something.  They
couldn't hit him.  My daddy told me, ah maybe you going to
be crazy.  He says, yeah, but he says, that's my living and
he said I'm going to go and play.  And then whenever he was 
through playing they had, they always had a bunch of men
like they do in the, the president.  When he would get out
of there they had a bunch of people there around him.  They
couldn't touch him.  But he would play anyhows.  No, he
had...I remember them people, them old folks there, him and
my daddy, they were, they could do some unusual thing with
the (UNCLEAR) accordian.  They had a, my grandpa had a dance
there, he had a big house.  They used to cruise the biggest
house to make their house dances.  So my daddy was playing
the dance at my grandpa.  So later on that night, Amaday got
there.  And you take people like (Fremot) and them, oh, they
would (hire him) sometime but they wasn't good enough, you
know.  Or whenever they couldn't get my daddy or Amaday to
play the dance they would get them guys.  that Fremot or,
they had a bunch, (UNCLEAR) I got a brother-in-law that used
to play, too.
               LOMAX    What did Amaday do when he got
there?


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.