LOMAX
PAGE 145

A  (continued)
Ah, it's a - it's a music for ah reflection
really. It's often used for ritual purposes
among ah primitive peoples, and ah, here it is
turning up in the deeps of the souther
mountains. It once was common in the whole
area...

Q  While we're the banjo um -

[*Dulcimer (dulc. is instr. #1)*]
A  The, the - the instrument that's closest to it 
of course is the, is the mountain dulcimer.
This again is a, is an instrument that has
fairly limited possibilities melodically
speaking. It's a table zither and you chord
along one string playing the tune. The other
two strings are - make a drone chord. Ah, this
instrument is also very ah, ah, much a part
of the north west European tradition.It was
commonest in Norway and ah in northern Germany
and we don't know quite how and when it got to 
the mountains. But in this area around about 
ah, ah, Ashville and Boone, it's ve - it's ah
commonly manufactured and played today.
Sometimes they put hearts in it, in the, in
the cover, because, ah, it's so often used

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.