English resumed with photos of L.B.'s parents (Mexican and
Spanish) and his children and dog on porch. She shows
Christmas decorations for tree.

she: I learned to make them by myself.

A.L.: You've (both) invented lots of things. (to L.B.):
You, boats.

conts. in English

TAPE 1391 Loose translation from French

07:00 Man age 38, Houma Indian: Yes, I prefer to speak
French

07:02
Older men: the French I speak is different from other French
spoken in France, in schools, teachers, all real French
people etc. (He says he won't say that in English)

07:04 Woman with hat made by ? (says son)
A.L.: (english) Yours hats go all over the world don't they?
Woman with hat (in French): Yes, everywhere, Baton Rouge,
Lafayette.

A.L.: (english) That's a native hat.

07:08: Houma Indian man: says it's all his fault children
don't speak French

07:15: (french) In boat, in bayous, Houma Indian or white
man about finding shrimp (crevette) - size - throw back if
too small.

07:16 (french) Red fish, red trout, white trout. (english)
fish could be used as fertilizer.

(English) Re: no more alligators, or few game reserves,
Indians, trapping.

TAPE 1594 Loose translation from French Lawrence Billiot,
Houma Indians, bayous

08:00 Many boats. All English at beginning

08:00 Man tells how oil companies built or dredged canals
and leand becomes swampier and less of what he and his Dad
bought. Then big oak trees die and salt water kills grass
and trees. If an oak tree can't live you can't expect to
keep grass.

08:03: (all English) Young man: that was our downfall; we
were too kind-hearted and gave permission to man to build

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.