CAJUN CULTURE VO   -10

about this.  And he, he, this man wrote, put together the
first book of Cajun language, writing down, collecting the
folk tales and putting them between two covers of a lovely
little book which says [FRENCH], Don't Let Go of the Potato,
the Cajun, the French Cajun motto -- don't give up.  Don't
Let Go of the Potato.  And he went farther.  He started a 
Saturday morning broadcast where he sold whatever there had
to be sold in broad Cajun language.  And, and for many, many
years every radio in Cajun land was turned onto Revon as he
sat there telling funny stories and advertise, and reading
his adverts in, in Cajun and with French Cajun music and
plenty of, of good time rolling going on in the dark between
the couples who came to dance in the big bar room of
[Mamou], which became the cultural capital of the Cajun
world.  And this is where we are right now.
     And, and I think we can go, then we can go
right on in. . . .this, I'm going to be just. . . .[MIKE OFF]
     Do, in Bois Sec's playing you see the sign of
Africa.  The left hand is active as the right.  The thing
that Jelly Roll pointed out, that the rhythm hand was as
active and as varied as the melody hand.  That's the whole
structure of black style is right there.  And in Louisiana
we know that this went right back to the vocal tradition
that survived here.  The drums didn't last but they kept
their drumming and their complicated rhythm alive in singing
choruses accompanied by drumming with hands and feet. I

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.