TIMECODE     2
LOMAX
Can't guess, what happened?
STAN HICKS
It fell right down through that hole where the boulder got
broke off, an' got drowned.

JACK STORY
RAY HICKS
We hadn't got very far, 'til we come to the river, we come
to a river, and they was fifty ducks, 'round fifty ducks
was a swimming in that river, an' he said look at that
Ray, I've got to have them, and I said how the devil are
you going to git them.  Well we got our shoe strings
out. . . .
. . . .he tied them together and tied his britches' legs,
and said I'll swim under there, and tie their legs
together, and they won't know!  And he got under that
water and swimmed under there, and got 'em tied together,
and when he come up amongst that bunch of ducks, they were
quackin' an' hollerin' and wound up, and he had the whole
fifty of them tied up, wound together, and his britches,
when he was standin' there talking, his britches were
going like that, and he let 'em out, and he had thirty
five pound of fish he'd seined in here while he was under
there!
. . . .and said the bullet 'Id go zig-zag, zig-zag, and
get all three of them.  And so he shot, and it blowed the
turkey off, and hit the squirrel and then the duck, and it
blowed the gun up, and the barrel went out, and Jack was
knocked down there pretty tore up and unconscious and

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.