-8-

instrument. Its African name is Banya or
something close to that and then it then it
is called Banjar in the West Indies and on
looking in the literature I have discovered
that the mountaineers also sometimes in the
old days called it the Banjar.

[*03:16:29:23*]
The Banjar in its original form was four
strings, loosely strung instrument, all the
African stringed instruments tend to have
loose strings so they not only give a tone
but they also give a kind of a swish,
because Africans like a buzz in their music
all the time, they put strings on the head
of a drum to make the drum heads buzz, that
is the dirty tone notes that they want to
be there all the time. That is for another
broadcast but anyway the Banjo was that
sort of an instrument and then it was 
picked up by Southern whites and a man
named Sweeney who as obviously another one
of out Scotch-Irishmen put a fifth string
on it and that fifth string is shorter as
you can see than the others. It is the
thumb string and that is the one that
sounds all the way through so you have your
drone on top, see, and that is very very
important about mountain music, because its
all the top end of things.

INT
Is that the tenor drone you talked about
with Tommy Geral?

LOMAX
Right, the tenor drone so all the time you
[*03:17:37:29*]
have, all the way through everything, this
unchanging, ding ding, and then you play

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.