3

of discipline in these families.  The 
discipline was, in modern terms, 
Dickensian.     Children were hit with 
whatever the parents had in their hand and 
if they disobeyed they were going to get 
the razor strop and get it many times 
because the situation was that the man had 
his kids and his wife and he was all alone 
in some cove and if they didn't help him 
produce, they starved.  Those kids had to 
start working young.  The little girl had 
to stand up on a chair on top on a pillow 
and begin washing dishes when she was 5 and 
the boys had to get out there and help him 
to bale,  so the discipline was severe.  
They all looked back on it with a grin but 
of course it is buried, damage deep in 
the psychies and it comes out in many ways
in the songs and the stories and of course 
in the violence of mountain inter-action 
when people get a few drinks [Pan from Stanley with toys to Alan] but I thought 
it was charming that Stanley understood the 
connection between the toys and this, that 
the father took the same hand that had been 
raised in anger against his kid, took his 
pocket knife and his wonderful woodsman's 
skill and carve these delicious toys that 
you are going to see,  thereby hangs the 
great American story.

I don't know if you know it but most 
contemporary modern farming machinery was 
first invented by American farmers mostly 
in the North East,   the automatic reaper, 
the mechanical reaper and the gin and all 
these things.    First in carved out

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.