1 
BARNARD, RAYMOND 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
June 15, 2018 
 
SIMS: [00:00:01] I'm going to have put you on speakerphone as 
well so I can use the recorder. Ray, could we start by asking 
you to say and spell your name please? 
 
BARNARD: [00:00:20] My name is Raymond, R-A-Y-M-O-N-D, Barnard, 
B-A-R-N-A-R-D 
 
SIMS: [00:00:27] And how long have you been at Fort Polk? 
 
BARNARD: [00:00:31] I came to work here in 1989 October of '89. 
 
SIMS: [00:00:38] And could you tell me what your main role in 
terms of being out in the box is, you know over the time that 
you've been there? 
 
BARNARD: [00:00:49] Well my first ... JRTC first came down here 
in '93, I was photographer and somehow or other I kinda became 
the official JRTC photographer for about ten years until 2003. 
That's when through contracting and everything, that job went 
away and then I became media on the battlefield, Public Affairs 
Specialist. 
 
SIMS: [00:01:22] OK, let's talk first about those early years. 
Can you describe to me, you know when you went out in the box, 
you know what a what it looked like the first time they set up 
the villages? I mean I know what they looked like in 2005. but I 
imagine they were a bit different. 
 
BARNARD: [00:01:43] Yeah. When I first went out there, number 
one, when I first went out there, there were no villages. And I 
remember when they announced the JRTC was coming down here. I 
 
 
2 
went out with the Chief of Staff of the Army, General Gordon 
Sullivan. And basically I don't know if you've been down on Look 
Out Road down on the south end of the box? You had Artillery 
Road, and you had Look Out Road, and there was nothing between 
there. That was just tank lane training. And when it was 
announced that JRTC was coming down here, I think in about March 
of that year of 1993, when JRTC took over they started like 
this. They built the village, the village of Carnis was the 
first village they built out there. And then they built 
Jettertown, which was all the way to the south. They had a town 
called Smithvilla and Maddox Homestead. And that was the four 
villages that they had there at the time. Of course, they also 
built a live fire village. They did a lot of fire exercises out 
there on Dugout Road and that was called Acads. Now all these 
villages Maddox Homestead, Smithvilla, Jettertown, and Le Caz 
were all named after families that had inhabited that land 
before Fort Polk was became Fort Polk. They were people, they 
were named after families that had been displaced by the 
formation of Camp Polk/Fort Port.  
 
SIMS: [00:03:38] Were any of their houses or structures still 
around? 
 
BARNARD: [00:03:45] Oh no no. Because the tanks, the tanks were 
just, you know, I mean that there were no roads. In fact, you 
know that road that runs down by the dropzone, you know the 
dropzone wasn't there either at the time, Geronimo dropzone. 
That road from there and goes down to the south, that wasn't 
there probably until like it was almost the end of '94, '95 
before that road was complete down through there. So I mean it's 
been been a lot of work infrastructure-wise in the last 25 years 
out here. 
 
SIMS: [00:04:32] Now was the drop zone there? Did they have to--
was that forest and they had to clear all that, they had to 
clear it out? 
 
 
3 
 
BARNARD: [00:04:40] It really wasn't forest because I don't know 
how familiar you are when with tank lanes and especially with 
this, with this countryside down here. I mean it was all nothing 
but beaches, erosion. Just really it was, it's like, it was bad 
at JRTC came in and the army reclaimed the land. Rebuild it back 
up. There's trees growing out there now in places where there 
were no trees back then. I mean they -- that woodpecker, red 
cockaded woodpecker, you know I mean they were on the verge of 
extinction right before JRTC yet got here, and JRTC has been 
good in my opinion for the wildlife of this area. 
 
SIMS: [00:05:41] Now have they acquired more land since JRTC 
came? 
 
BARNARD: [00:05:48] Yeah. I think they finished up last year 
with the acquisition of about 47,000 acres up to the north. What 
main part of Fort Polk is, a joint zone to get to the Peason 
training area up there. About 47,000 acres is what they got up 
there and they're working on that now, putting fencing around, 
building roads they can use it. 
 
SIMS: [00:06:20] So for years that were you're photographer--so 
until about 2004, if I had that correct, are you in play, or are 
you doing documentation for the army? 
 
BARNARD: [00:06:35] I was doing documentation. I covered you 
know like the VIPs when they came down. I covered the actual 
battles. I was out there every day from, for about 21 days a 
month. I was taking pictures. Of course you've been around a 
while, you know how hard it would have been to take pictures 
back in the film days. It's a whole lot tougher back then than 
it is now with digits. 
 
 
 
4 
SIMS: [00:07:10] And then in terms of media on the battlefield, 
could you describe what your job has been for that with the role 
players? 
 
BARNARD: [00:07:19] Well, the media on the battlefield, my part 
of it is: I'm the planner for me on the battlefield. And I 
replicate the division, the corps, and one of the major commands 
above brigade public affairs. And I write the documents, and 
come up with the scenario for the interviews, coordinate for the 
newspaper and the radio and the TV and the internet pieces. What 
we try to do is replicate a fluid media environment that they 
could that they could possibly interact with in real life. But 
it's all--there's nothing real. Well, I say there's nothing 
real. We don't, we don't make any--it's all scenario-based. We 
don't use any real world stories. We don't inject any real world 
activities in training. It's all scenario-based. We started out 
at one time, while at one time it was just me and John going 
around doing doing interviews, and he would film them, and then 
we would kind of we, we enlarge. We had like at one time almost 
50 roleplayers, and now we are down to five. But we're still 
trying to do the same stuff. We're still trying to do the 
newspaper and radio and the TV and the internet. As you well 
know you know, we work. All our guys, all our role players, they 
have to write a story, and they have to take pictures, and they 
have to do a radio, do a radio story, and they have a TV story. 
So every day they have to do this. This is a requirement for 
them to be out there. 
 
SIMS: [00:09:45] You know, I don't think I've ever seen the 
internet part of it. Can you describe what that is? Is there a 
couple of websites that people in the box can actually use? 
 
BARNARD: [00:09:57] It's a closed circuit website. It's all it's 
all on the cable system out there. A cat 5 cable system. We try 
to keep everything closed circuit and not out on the Internet. 
So there's, so we don't end up with leaks out there. What we're 
 
 
5 
doing. Because also on that same internet, you know, you have 
other people that are putting anti-, you know, anti-American 
sentiments on there and, you know, whatever, whatever the 
American army's doing they get you know they got enemy army out 
there. It's kind of the same thing, talking bad about Americans. 
So we try to keep that out of the public domain if at all 
possible. 
 
SIMS: [00:10:51] And is it more than one web page? 
 
BARNARD: [00:10:56] Right now, we do three web pages. We do an 
Ayriama and web page, which is the enemy. That's just, that's 
just their news. And it pretty generic kind of stuff, you know, 
and then, you know, and then we have a Al-Mania news site, which 
is more along the lines of pro-Atropian government. They are 
doing business in Atropia. We have All News 2, which I kind of 
try to tell people I try to compare it to the old headline news 
type of site, where it's just news. Not a lot of entertaining 
kind of stuff and everything. We're trying to, I'm trying to, 
get it to where we are streaming radio and television on those 
sites. But right now all we have is print. And we have we do 
have video embedded on those sites. But it's like just 
individual stories it's not it's not a stream. 
 
SIMS: [00:12:10] So sort of remind me how the TV station the 
radio station work--like if you're in the box. you just pick up 
on your regular radio, and then for the TV... 
 
BARNARD: [00:12:25] There again, that's closed circuit, too. 
Even when we had a transmitter out there, it was all encrypted. 
You had to have like a cable box to be able to watch it, plus it 
was in the PAL format, which is the format they use over in 
Europe. So American television wouldn't pick it up without one 
of those boxes. But what we do now is we put it out over a cable 
system, over that that cat 5 cable system, and it goes out to 
the big villages. Which is now Dara Lam and Sangari, and it goes 
 
 
6 
out to them so they can get it. Through funding and everything, 
which we've lost a lot of funding, it's just, that it's just a 
matter of trying to keep it going 
 
BARNARD: [00:13:32] So are they like in cafes and like the 
bigger buildings basically? 
 
BARNARD: [00:13:39] Well, the cafe, the radio station is 
basically on a loudspeaker system. We have it we have it that 
way because, number one, we can't, we're not broadcasting on 
anything that could pick it up. So you know, we can't have 
individual radios like that out there, which would be great if 
we could, but we can't right now. And so we have it on a speaker 
system. So it's in the background, you know. I mean when 
American troops walk in, there's some sort of music playing and 
reporting going on in the background. Now whether or not they 
stop and pick it up. That's just like if they stop and pick up a 
copy of the newspapers or something, whether or not they stop 
and pick it up and pay attention to it, that's up to them. But 
the idea is to try and try to train them to be aware of 
different things that's going on in their, in their environment. 
 
SIMS: [00:14:44] How often the newspapers produced? Are they 
daily during the rotation? 
 
BARNARD: [00:14:50] We did them daily. Right now because of 
contract limitation, we are doing them every other day, but I 
trying to get that reinstated back to daily. 
 
SIMS: [00:15:02] And in terms of the TV and radio, is it kind of 
a similar output? Maybe it used to be more when you had more 
people, then... 
 
BARNARD: [00:15:11] Well, we used to produce more product, but 
we're still, we're still going on a sort of 24/7 sort of 
situation. 
 
 
7 
 
SIMS: [00:15:23] And is the newspaper actually produced back in 
the building where you are in John are, and then you all take it 
out? 
 
BARNARD: [00:15:31] Yes. OK. Yeah we have: what we do we do it 
in a magazine format that is printed out and folded and stapled. 
So 11...what is it turns out to be is 8.5 by 11. We printed it 
out on 11 x 17 paper, and that's folded into half to get us 8.5 
by 11. It's pretty neat little paper really for what we do. I 
get a lot of people, a lot of people that come through, and 
they're sort of like, you know, they're shaking their heads 
north and south and saying, yeah, that's pretty good there. 
 
SIMS: [00:16:11] Yeah, I've picked up a couple, and I remember 
it really. You know, there were like actual ads for places that 
were in villages, right? 
 
BARNARD: [00:16:19] And like yeah yeah, we do all that stuff. 
The thing about it, it's supposed to be a national paper. So we 
have a lot of stories that are happening outside of the 
maneuverer area, that actually if the unit pays attention to it, 
they can kind of put together a timeline and figure out this is 
coming their way. It's just a matter of, you know, whether, it's 
whether it's an atrocity or something to say it happens down in 
the southern part of the country. That gives a heads-up that 
maybe you need to look for that in their area something's going 
to happen two or three days down the road. Unfortunately, they 
haven't caught on to all that stuff yet. 
 
SIMS: [00:17:12] Right. If I remember there is, there's a lot 
sort of hidden there, but they have to know what to look for? 
 
BARNARD: [00:17:21] Yes. That's what, that's what we're trying 
to do. We're trying to teach you to pay attention and then of 
course we got a lot of junk in it. So you know, you've got to 
 
 
8 
wade through and figure out, OK, it's just so stupid that it 
might be true? Or is this just ridiculous, does it have any 
relevance? You know, kind of like, what you would do if you were 
going through the internet in real life, or going to look in a 
newspaper in real life. You have to learn to kind of filter 
through things. 
 
SIMS: [00:17:57] Could I ask you, what's the favorite part of 
the job for you? 
 
BARNARD: [00:18:04] The best part is like when we actually, is 
usually at the end of a rotation, these guys are like "Man, you 
guys worked our butts off." That says me and John are doing what 
we're supposed to be doing. We're had people come in and you 
know they go to this Defense Information School, which is where 
all the public affairs people go. And they'll come down and 
they'll say things like, you know, we don't even need to go to 
that school, we should just come here. We learned more here than 
we did at that school and things like that. That's the kind of 
stuff, you know, that makes you feel good, makes you feel like 
you're, you're contributing to their training and their 
professionalism and everything. You know, "wow, I didn't know 
that." That kind of stuff. 
 
SIMS: [00:19:07] Yeah, it seems like, you know, you've got so 
much going on that people are going to pick up a lot of skills 
just because you've got to do all those media, you know, pretty 
much every day. 
 
BARNARD: [00:19:20] Well, you know, we've we have a saying, that 
it's just it's like trying to drink water from a fire hose. You 
know, there's so much coming at you. This isn't supposed to be 
the training ground, this is supposed to be the proving ground. 
But unfortunately for a lot of the people who come in here, this 
is their training ground. So, so it's like it's like, like what 
John says, it's like drinking water from a fire hose, just like 
 
 
9 
you got so much stuff coming at you. And we give them copies of 
everything when they leave. We give them copies of all the, all 
the products that we produce, and stuff like that, so they can 
go back and look it, and maybe come up with a plan for the next 
time they come down. Well, maybe we should've done a press 
conference, or maybe we should have done an interview here, here 
and here, that we didn't do this time. And so maybe next time 
they come in, they're like OK when something like this happens 
we need to get commander to do a press conference, get the, you 
know, tell the story. You get the teams and messages out and 
try, to try to avoid the consequence, the consequence 
management. Try, try to manage the consequences of our actions. 
 
SIMS: [00:20:45] You do like, hot washes or after action reviews 
with people, or like media stuff? 
 
BARNARD: [00:20:54] John does the, does the--when they do 
interviews, he does the hot wash with the interviews, after the 
interviews are done. Now at the end of the rotation, I attend 
two different AARs, after action reviews. And one of them is 
non-lethal, which includes all the non-lethal parts of the 
rotation, which would be PSYOPS and public affairs and civil 
affairs and stuff like that. And so I have a little piece in 
that. And with all the brigade that's what's the brigade 
commander and all the battalion commanders. I attend the brigade 
after action review, which they don't, they don't really get to 
the public affairs part because they've got so much other stuff, 
but we produce a product for that for that AAR. And it goes you 
know goes back with the commander 
 
SIMS: [00:22:08] Ray, I really appreciate your time. Is there 
anything that we haven't covered that you think would be 
important to you know kind of get down in the historical record 
about your work in the box? 
 
 
 
10 
BARNARD: [00:22:23] Well, I tell you what, I've been doing it, I 
probably got about 300 rotations. And you know some good, some 
bad. It just amazes me. The training amazes me. The people, you 
know, I don't know. When I went in the military, I don't know if 
I could have done this training when I was in the military. You 
know, to be perfectly honest with you this is very different. 
This is very tough for these guys to do. And you've been here, 
you've seen it. You know, I don't know what else would you say. 
It is very it's unlike anything. I tell people all the time, and 
you've been at the National Training Center too right? 
 
SIMS: [00:23:19] That's right, yeah. 
 
BARNARD: [00:23:21] I tell people all the time that the NTC is 
like pre-season scrimmage and JRTC is the Super Bowl. I mean, 
that's just it. I had a kid tell me one time up in Washington 
State, this was back like '96, '97, and I went up there for a 
Kodak seminar up in Seattle. So I rode the ferry over to Dover 
to Bremerton, Washington, in fact, just take the pictures. There 
was a kid on there, and he was like 18 or something. I had a 
JRTC hat on and he said you've been to JRTC? And I said well I 
work there, and he's like, oh man. And he said, I'm in. You 
know, he was in the National Guard. He told me all about what it 
did, and he said I really wish we could go to JRTC because 
everybody knows you're not really part of the army, unless you 
get to go to JRTC, and I was like, "Oh my god, why didn't I have 
a recorder with me." This would have been perfect. He's probably 
like a sergeant major or something. If he stayed, but it just 
was totally out of the blue this kid. started talking about 
JRTC. And of course, there again, that was back for 20 years 
ago, but still, I mean I still think about this kid. And the 
things he said about what reputation the JRTC has. It's it's 
pretty amazing stuff I think.  I told you I drank the Kool-Aid 
back in '93. But if you have any anything else, you know, I 
think John told you that Sergeant Major Hardwick's, he's going 
to try to get him. And Sergeant Major Hardwick told me that he 
 
 
11 
was the first sergeant major down here with operations group. 
And he told me something. He said that the worst thing the Army 
did was move infantry training from Fort Polk, Louisiana. And he 
was referring to back in the days when Tigerland, you know, the 
Vietnam training and everything. And he has been a very staunch 
advocate of infantry training. He was infantry from E1 through 
E9, and, and a very knowledgeable guy. He could tell you 
probably about the differences for like, Fort Chaffee and here. 
And I mean there's just so there's a lot of history here in this 
area about the army, which may be the reason you know they're 
building that Gulf Coast strategic highway. You know that 
Congress...congressmen in Texas and Louisiana are trying to get 
interstate 14 or something. 
 
SIMS: [00:26:43] Does it run near Leesville, or further south? 
 
BARNARD: [00:26:46] Comes right through Leesville. It's supposed 
to end up connecting, like, Fort Stewart, Georgia to Fort Hood, 
Texas. And then, well really, Fort Bliss, Texas. But it will 
join at I20, I10 out there in West Texas, and then it'll go to 
like the ports of Beaumont and Houston and stuff like that. So 
people, you know, to move material, move trucks stuff down to 
those ports a little quicker. 
 
SIMS: [00:27:24] That makes sense. 
 
BARNARD: [00:27:27] It does make sense, it's amazing. You know 
what, that it hasn't already happened I guess is. Because you 
know yourself. You don't just, you don't. You either -- you 
don't just drive by Fort Polk. You have to either want to be 
here, or you're lost. It's not like, say, Fort Stewart, Georgia, 
where you're driving up I95 and you pass by it, or Fort Bragg, 
North Carolina, or any of those places. You got what you got to 
want get here. 
 
 
 
12 
SIMS: [00:28:09] Yeah, it's even hard when you're in Leesville 
you know to find it. 
 
BARNARD: [00:28:15] Yeah. You know, anything else, you know, 
just let me know, and you know I can talk back to talking about 
this JRTC stuff. 
 
SIMS: [00:28:33] Ok, thanks. I think I'm going to try to 
transcribe everything and then, you know, as I'm working on 
stuff, might reach back out. I appreciate the offer. 
 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 28:47]