Wineland, Brenda 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
September 28, 2017 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:08]: Alright, so the first thing I’m gonna do is 
just test the levels, make sure the recording quality’s good. If 
you wouldn’t mind telling me what you had for breakfast— 
 
WINELAND [00:00:16]: Nothing. I don’t, [laughing] I don’t eat 
breakfast.  
 
SIMS: You’re not a breakfast eater? 
 
WINELAND: No, I don’t eat breakfast.  
 
SIMS: What about for lunch? 
 
WINELAND [00:00:22]: Crackers and a, a sandwich usually but I’m 
out there in the box working I’m—I’m eating while I’m driving. 
 
SIMS [00:00:28]: What’s that place on the—do you go there at 
like— 
 
WINELAND: Slappy Pappy’s [laughing] 
 
SIMS: That’s right.  
 
WINELAND: We’re not allowed.  
 
SIMS: You’re not allowed to go there? 
 
WINELAND [00:00:36]: No, we’re not allowed. We’re working, we’re 
not allowed to pull over there. I would sure like to try it.  
 
SIMS: Oh. Huh. Yeah. 
 
WINELAND: The O.C.s eat there, we can’t. 
 
SIMS: That’s too bad…so…could you start by telling me your name 
and spelling it? 
 
WINELAND [00:01:01]: I’m Brenda Wineland, B-R-E-N-D-A W-I-N-L-A-
N-D. 
 
SIMS [00:01:10]: And where are you today?  
 
WINELAND: Today we’re in Anacoco Louisiana at my house.  
 
SIMS [00:01:15]: Alright. So, why don’t you tell me what you did 
today at work, at the start of the rotation is probably— 
 
WINELAND [00:01:21]: At the start of the rotation, I get all of 
my things together that I’m going to take into the field with me 
to do interviews, my camera for video and taking pictures of the 
soldiers. Right now there’s no soldiers really in play because 
they’re doing live fires. So, really haven’t seen a lot of 
soldiers yet, but we’re prepared.  
 
SIMS [00:01:47]: So let’s go back in time a little bit, tell me 
about when you got your first job at Fort Polk and how you heard 
about it.  
 
WINELAND: With, with, with role play? 
 
SIMS: Well did you do something else before role play? 
 
WINELAND [00:02:01]: Yeah, I worked out there a long time ago 
during Desert Storm when the soldiers were leaving and going out 
to Desert Storm. I worked at a, it was one of the, like mill 
places where you—I was, I did headcount in there at the door—
count the soldiers that came in, how many were eating and stuff 
like that. I would do that morning, noon, and evening time. And 
I did that for a while. Got used to--you know those soldiers 
going to Desert Storm I seen a lot of women come in telling me 
their children were going to be left you know with their parents 
while they went over there. It was kind of heartbreaking ‘cause 
they’re young. 
 
SIMS: And did you—you sort of got into that job because your 
husband was stationed at Fort Polk? 
 
WINELAND: No.  
 
SIMS: No. 
 
WINELAND [00:02:48]: No, my dad was in the military, he was 
retired military, I was a single mother at the time and I got 
out there, I heard about the job and I went out and applied. 
 
SIMS: Oh okay.  
 
WINELAND: So… 
 
SIMS: So tell me about your family’s connection to the military. 
So in terms of your parents and maybe— 
 
WINELAND [00:03:05]: My dad was in the military, there was 
eleven children in my dad’s family. I think he might’ve had one 
or two brothers that joined for a little while but my father’s 
the only one that retired from military. He spent twenty-two 
years in, he died when he was fifty-one years old. He had, first 
he had when he was forty-eight he had a massive heart attack and 
then at fifty-one he died of cancer and when he was in the V.A. 
Hospital they said it started from Vietnam, the agent orange. 
 
SIMS [00:03:39]: Yeah, I had a neighbor who—it’s very similar 
circumstances— 
 
WINELAND: Yep. 
 
SIMS: That he died young. 
 
WINELAND: Yep. 
 
SIMS: So growing up like what was your, I guess impression of 
the military? I mean was it something— 
 
WINELAND [00:03:53]: I always loved the military. I always 
thought that that was a great place. People—I mean it was like 
family. Everybody helped each other, it was like family. When 
you’re away from your family overseas all these people, they 
come together, it’s—you might miss your family but you have 
family there with you. Military is family.  
 
SIMS: And, I guess that became true for you. Like you met your 
husband because he was at Fort Polk? 
 
WINELAND: No.  
 
SIMS: Oh.  
 
WINELAND [00:04:26]: My, the husband that I’m married to now he, 
no he’d been in the military prior to me meeting him and I think 
he spent four or six years in but I just always, I never really 
dated anybody in the military [laughing] but I always wanted to 
be around people in the military. But I grew up that way I mean 
I was a military brat, went to school you know all, you know 
with all military. And when we graduated and things like that 
you, you don’t see those people anymore, like some people go to 
one school most of their life and have high school reunions and 
we were in Germany [laughing] so it’s hard for a—I, I have a few 
friends still from the school I went to but… 
 
SIMS [00:05:10]: But what type of jobs did you have before you 
took that first job at Fort Polk? 
 
WINELAND [00:05:16]: I’ve done all kinds of things. I’ve worked 
at Burger King, I’ve worked as a meat wrapper at Market Basket 
well, before it was Market Basket, at Stanley’s, I’ve worked at 
a processing plant in Texas where they kill the animals and you 
wrap ‘em—I’ve done all kinds of jobs. Working in the meat market 
during Thanksgiving and Christmas, dealing with turkeys and hams 
that weigh a ton and you know, throwing those around—yeah I’ve 
had all kinds of jobs. Working as a waitress, I’ve, I’ve done a 
lot of different jobs. 
 
SIMS [00:05:51]: And so how did you come, ultimately, I guess to 
be a role player? 
 
WINELAND [00:05:56]: Well I was working at the cleaners here in 
Leesville and…it was pretty hot back there everyday and I heard 
about role play hiring so I decided, I knew some people out 
there so--I had some friends that were out there and so I 
applied and I had somebody who I knew that was military telling 
me about it so, and I have a lot of friends still in the 
military and a lot of retired friends from the military here so 
I just applied, got the job, been there ever since.  
 
SIMS: So what time frame is this? 
 
WINELAND: Since 2008, I been there since 2008.  
 
SIMS: Okay. And…like what…what type of people do they want to be 
role players? It sounds like you had, like a lot of—a lot of 
different types of jobs and probably could handle a lot of 
different types of stress and stuff—I guess it’s like, it’s not 
a job for everybody, what do you think, like they are looking 
for? 
 
WINELAND [00:06:56]: Well it’s probably, it’s probably not if 
you’re really soft-hearted like you have to learn to sometimes 
not—that was the hardest part for me when I first started there 
was, was trying to conduct myself in a way, you know sometimes 
you have to kind of get on, press the issues with the military 
and you feel bad because you really don’t want to do that but 
that’s part of the job, that’s part of the training that they 
need because you want them to make their mistakes here and not 
make ‘em overseas so you have to, you have make your mind-frame 
knowing that and it makes it easier for you to do your job 
because you’re helping them. So you don’t feel like that you’re 
hurting them. But it was really hard at first, trying to be yeah 
you know ‘cause I felt like I was being mean to ‘em or 
[laughing]. 
 
SIMS: So what are some of those cases where you have to sort of 
be that way, that you—seems mean? 
 
WINELAND [00:07:51]: Well when they were making steaks out there 
I’ll write about it in the stories that I write. If they, if 
they do something wrong I make a big deal out of it—I publish it 
in the paper because I want it you know I don’t what that issue 
to be dropped, I, I want, I want them to catch that issue and if 
somebody needs to be reprimanded or whatever but the main thing 
is they’re making that mistake here. They get caught here they 
fix it and they know what not to do, you know? So you want to 
press those issues. 
 
SIMS [00:08:23]: So back when you first got hired…was it a job 
that, like they, like lots of people apply and only a few get it 
or was it a matter of like, they had so many, such a big need 
that— 
 
WINELAND [00:08:40]: They had such a big need and they, they 
hired a lot of people. But the thing about this job is, I mean 
they-there’s older people working out there, some people, the 
elder people here live off only their Social Security and so 
the, the jobs help them there. Sometimes they just need a body 
in the village and so these people are hired to help out—just to 
be there. You have amputees. Those people come—they, they help 
out a lot out there because when we do mass cas [mass casualty] 
and, and things like that they use them, it’s—they don’t, you 
know, they don’t have to put, put a dummy down there with minus 
a leg we have people that are minus legs, minus arms and so, and 
these people are happy to do it you know. They’re happy to have 
a job and they’re happy that they’re working with the military. 
They feel proud.  
 
SIMS [00:09:29]: Do you know how they find like, people who are, 
have amputated limbs and stuff? Is that like a special like, 
request they put out there? 
 
WINELAND [00:09:39]: I don’t, I’m not sure about that. All I 
know is I guess they’ve never discriminated a-against anyone so… 
 
SIMS: So when you first started was it, can you talk a little 
about the balance of it? Was it local people that was hired or 
did they, at that early time--I guess we’re talking 2008--did 
they have people who like, indigenous language skills like from 
those other countries? 
 
WINELAND [00:10:19]: Yes, we have what we call cultural role 
players. And during the Iraqi and Afghani rotations these people 
were people that were here in the states from New York—all over, 
different places, and they applied through different contractors 
and they were sent here. And they helped out with the military, 
they worked for the military, some of them worked as 
interpreters and some of them worked in the villages as 
governors and mayors to help the R.T.U. (Replacement Training 
Unit) know that they needed an interpreter. When they walked 
into the village they couldn’t just walk in there and start 
talking, they had to have an interpreter with them so they had 
to learn to deal with interpreters. And how to trust 
interpreters and how to know that the interpreter was doing the 
dialect the right way because some of those [laughing] cultural 
role players speak different like Dari and Pashto, those are 
different and so words are not the same as what they would be 
saying and so they had to, you know, that, that was a training 
tool for them, you know. 
 
SIMS [00:11:27]: And how—can you tell me some stories about…like 
the, the role players like—not necessarily in their interactions 
with soldiers but kind of like in the village—like what are some 
things that of…like of that you’ve observed that have happened 
and seen that would be interesting to—for folks to know about? 
 
WINELAND [00:11:49]: Well—well, if, if you don’t know this. In 
these mock villages there’s gardens, there’s people that 
actually get out there—they dig the gardens, they plant the 
gardens, they, they actually take care of the gardens—the 
rotation that they’re there, they’re there. When they come back 
the next rotation they’re out there checking the garden again 
but all of this is supposed to look real but these people are 
doing that, they’re doing the work—they’re raking, they’re 
cleaning, they’re running a market—set up, set up a market. You 
know everything is supposed to be looking real, it’s supposed to 
make, make the soldiers—you know it’s supposed to react to them 
as, as it’s a real situation. And sometimes—when soldiers come 
out there you see that. You know they, once they see stuff like 
that it just clicks on ‘em, they get in this mode that its real. 
[laughing] And so it’s a very good training for them.  
 
SIMS [00:12:46]: So what are, like what’s in the gardens, what 
do people, how does, how does— 
 
WINELAND [00:12:51]: They have tomatoes, cucumbers, squash, 
okra. 
 
SIMS [00:12:57]: And do people just bring seeds from home or do 
they— 
 
WINELAND [00:12:59]: Yeah they’ll bring seeds from home, they 
bring plants—yeah these role players buy the stuff themselves 
and bring it out there. When they fix up markets and stuff some 
of the role players will go to flea markets and stuff like that 
outside of work and buy things and bring them out there to make 
stuff look real. You know they bring jewelry, old beads and st--
to make it, you know look like a real market. You know the role 
players do that themselves. 
 
SIMS [00:13:26]: So no one necessarily tells them to do that? 
 
WINELAND [00:13:29]: No. No, they, they want to do it you know. 
They just, yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:13:35]: And it’s basically set up where that’s, like if 
not encouraged like people appreciate the fact that they’re kind 
of bringing that extra dimension to their job? 
 
WINELAND [00:13:44]: Yeah they don’t—yeah I mean there’s certain 
things you’re not allowed to bring but things like that to make 
it look like a market—yeah. Yeah they don’t tell them they can’t 
bring things like that, of course they ask but… 
 
SIMS [00:14:00]: So what are some of the stranger things that 
you’ve seen that people brought in over the years? 
 
WINELAND [00:14:06]: I can’t say anything strange because there 
for a long time no one was allowed your own personal cell phone 
out there in the box. We had phones that are, are just strictly 
for out there that you could use out there in the box—box phones 
is what they were called—now it’s more where certain people can 
carry cell phones but most of the role players don’t. You have 
a, a box phone.   
 
SIMS [00:14:40]: Why would they not want to have cell phones? 
 
WINELAND [00:14:44]: Well because they don’t want people taking 
personal pictures there, there’s a lot of things that they, they 
don’t want to get out. I mean you’ve got cultural role players 
coming in there from other countries—Afghanistan and Iraq—their 
families could be killed if pictures get out of them so it’s, 
it’s to keep everybody safe.  
 
SIMS [00:15:05]: And how, how did the like groups get along? 
Like the folks who maybe are from around? 
 
WINELAND [00:15:13]: Everybody got a—everybody got along good. 
We all were there for one reason. They were there to help train 
the soldiers and we were there to help train the soldiers and so 
we all got along good and I think they got along really well 
with the military because a lot of them were interpreters where 
you’d see them one time in one roe as a mayor or a governor or 
something, the next time you’d see them they was as an 
interpreter with the military. [laughing]  
 
SIMS [00:14:40]: And how do they, you know they’re coming often 
from far away, right? Like from— 
 
WINELAND [00:15:44]: Yeah New York, California, they used to 
come from all over. 
 
SIMS [00:15:48]: And do you, is it, do you have a sense of it’s 
like they’re doing it for the—because it’s a good job 
financially or is it sort of patriotism? You know a combination 
of those things? 
 
WINELAND [00:16:04]: I think it’s a combination. I think, I 
think the ones that have come here I believe are happy to be in 
America and, and I also believe that they did get quite a bit of 
money so I believe the money had a factor, too.  
 
SIMS [00:16:25]: And were the, those, those folks are they 
people who had been in the states for a long time or are they 
relatively recent immigrants? 
 
WINELAND [00:16:37]: All of them, they all had to be here for a 
long time, they were all vetted, yeah they were all checked out. 
If they weren’t—if something was wrong with any of their 
credentials or something like that they didn’t have ‘em out 
there. 
 
SIMS [00:16:55]: Is there—so you had mentioned you started in 
2008, how like since then has the percentage of cultural role 
players like— 
 
WINELAND [00:17:05]: It’s went down, it’s went down but it at, 
right now, the things that happened in Iraq and Afghan it’s not 
so much, we’re not really so much into those rotations right 
now. We’re training for other rotations, other things—we have 
Atropia, we have Arena rotations, it’s different rotations. It’s 
just it’s to train the soldiers so, right now it’s the Iraq and 
Afghan thing you know, that’s kind of, that’s kind of in the 
background right now. I mean I know that there’re still things 
that are going on but right now it’s really the cultural role 
players are not needed ‘cause we’re not really doing too much on 
that. I mean the military shifted into a, a, an advice and a 
role and they’re not, it’s not so much that they’re fighting 
with them, they’re training—they’re training and advising, so 
roles have changed. 
 
SIMS [00:18:08]: So the, I think, I sort of—I think I know the 
answer but, to sort of for the archive—how, like what determines 
what scenario’s gonna happen for a given rotation? 
 
WINELAND [00:18:24]: That comes up from higher than us. That 
comes I guess from the C.O.G. or they have scenario writers. All 
that stuff is planned like that and I guess it goes by what the 
unit needs. The military works all that out and we just do what 
we’re told. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:18:44]: What’s a C.O.G.?  
 
WINELAND: Uhm… 
 
SIMS: It’s one of those acronyms that people say that— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah I know. There are so many acronyms out there and 
then once you learn the acronyms they change them up. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND: Like the O.C.s, they were Observer Controllers now 
it’s different. It’s, it’s just—you, it keeps you on your toes 
constantly because once you learn a few acronyms then they 
change those and there’s something else. [laughing] Like we had 
an I.S.B. which was, in Alexandria that’s no longer an I.S.B. 
it’s an A.P.O.D. 
 
SIMS: And, and what is, what are, what is that? 
 
WINELAND [00:19:15]: I don’t know. [laughing] These, these ac—
you just have to, you, it takes you time to get a readjusted to 
these—  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND: Other acronyms, yeah. And they told us the other day 
and I just can’t, I haven’t let that sink in yet.  
 
SIMS [00:19:30]: Is it something you go and pick up or like, 
like— 
 
WINELAND [00:19:33]: No, no. It’s like a place. It’s like a 
place where the R.T.U. go. It’s, it’s a staging place is what it 
is. It’s where they stage. And…the whole names changed. 
[laughing]  
 
SIMS: Okay so was I.S…B? I.S— 
 
WINELAND [00:19:50]: Yeah, the I.S.B. is a— 
 
SIMS: Now it’s called— 
 
WINELAND [00:19:52]: An A.P.O.D. [laughing] Yeah. Just, I mean 
that was a big flip flop there. 
 
SIMS: Right. A.P.O.D. sounds like an insect or something. 
 
WINELAND: Yeah it’s sounds like a, something outer space, you 
know gonna get in the A.P.O.D. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. So R.T.U. is…what? 
 
WINELAND [00:20:10]: The Rotational Training Unit. 
 
SIMS: Okay that’s an easy one. 
 
WINELAND: Yeah.  
 
SIMS: F.O.B. is one that came up a lot. 
 
WINELAND [00:20:15]: Yeah, that’s a Forward Operating Base. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And can you think of some other ones? That you use 
on a regular basis? 
 
WINELAND [00:20:23]: Well, mainly right now we really don’t use 
those. We’re not, we don’t use the military terms because really 
we’re reporters and we’re not military you know, in our roles. 
So we’re not military so we really wouldn’t use military terms. 
We would say at a, “at a fort” or something of that matter 
instead of saying “a F.O.B.” Or we used to say that but things 
have changed with our writing, they don’t want us to use the 
military terms. They, because it doesn’t look real because we’re 
not military. 
 
SIMS: Right. So are they the scenario writers? OR-- 
 
WINELAND [00:20:05]: Yes, and the P.A.O. (Project Administration 
Office), the people that are in charge, that’s just how they 
want it. You know, the military. They don’t want us using that 
because it looks funny to the military—“well how do they know 
what that is?” you know. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. So like if the military, somebody in the military 
who’s in the Rotational Training Unit— 
 
WINELAND: Right. 
 
SIMS: Picks up the newspaper and it’s all— 
 
WINELAND [00:21:27]: Yeah, all military slang it looks kind of 
funny. It doesn’t look like an Atropian real—newspaper. 
 
SIMS: Right. So it would give them a false sense of like, that’s 
how it actually is. 
 
WINELAND [00:21:36]: Right, right. We want it to be as, as, as 
close to what it should be as possible and so it would be more 
like of a six—like a sixth grade reading where anyone could read 
the newspaper, it wouldn’t be you know slang of military because 
we’re not military. 
 
SIMS [00:21:54]: Right. So when you were a role player did you 
have personal interactions with the scenario writers? 
 
WINELAND: No. 
 
SIMS: No, 
 
WINELAND [00:22:02]: Never. Nope, we never seen the scenario 
writers. 
 
SIMS: And do you, like do you have a sense in your head like 
where are they, like physically? 
 
WINELAND [00:22:10]: I have a sense in my head. Sometimes I’d 
like to get them and tell them how things really are out there. 
[laughing] don’t write that. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: So how do, like how, how does the story of the day or the 
story of the week like get filtered down to you? Like what are, 
if you—like how does, how does it work? Like is it every 
morning— 
 
WINELAND [00:22:29]: No, the stories don’t get to you, you go 
out there and you get the story. 
 
SIMS: I’m talking like as a role player. 
 
WINELAND: Yeah. I go out there as, as a reporter in my role—and 
I find the story. I talk to citizens out there, the, the other 
role players that are citizens in the village, I talk to the, 
the R.T.U., the Rotational Training Unit, I talk to the 
military. I talk to people and find out what’s going on, by what 
I see and what I hear.  
 
SIMS: And do you have translators as well? Or— 
 
WINELAND [00:22:59]: No. No, I’m Atropian, in in my role I’m 
Atropian but I speak good English, I went to school in Ireland. 
[laughing] I guess they did that because of the red hair.   
 
SIMS: Right. So what is, I mean tell me your— 
 
WINELAND  : My... 
 
SIMS: Your identity. 
 
WINELAND: My identity. 
 
SIMS: In, is, is it you have a different name? 
 
WINELAND: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Like can you tell me the whole— 
 
WINELAND [00:23:18]: Yes. My name is Sahar Yusufzai and I’m with 
Amadiya Media Service.  
 
SIMS: Can you, can you spell your name real quick? 
 
WINELAND [00:23:26]: Yes, S-A-H-A-R Y-U-S-U-F-Z-A-I. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: How long did it take you to learn that? 
 
WINELAND [00:23:34]: I been ?De-Delela? [laughing] so I’ve had 
several names. Cortina rotations I was Carla Muton, so…but this 
one Sahar has been a pretty long time I’ve had that one. 
 
SIMS: Okay so tell me about her. 
 
WINELAND [00:23:51]: I, I am a—I started off majoring in history 
to get an in-depth view of the world’s current affairs but after 
seeing the upheavals in my home country, I decided to switch to 
journalism so I decided to come back to be a voice for my 
father’s people. My father was Atropian and he had passed away 
and I wanted to come back here and be a voice for the people, so 
that’s why I switched to journalism. I lived in Ireland with my 
maternal grandparents, went to school there for a while, went to 
school in London. [laughing] Yeah, I’ve just traveled. So I’ve 
seen some, some parts of the world. 
 
SIMS: Sounds like it. 
 
WINELAND [00:24:34]: And I speak English very well. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: You do, I wanted to compliment you on that. 
 
WINELAND: [laughing] Yes. 
 
SIMS [00:24:39]: Even with a bit of that acc—that southern 
accent. 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, yeah. 
 
SIMS: So is all, like all the information you just told me is 
that, was that given to you? Or do you m— 
 
WINELAND [00:24:47]: Yes, that was given to me. That was given 
to me because whenever, what they do is they give each, each 
reporter their bio like they do the role players. The role 
players are not so much but the reporters…the R.T.U. the, the 
Training, the Rotational Training Unit that comes here knows 
there’s media out there so they get a stack of papers of each 
media person who’s there so they know who we are and they get, 
they get a chance to read our bios and that helps them out if 
they do that but… [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. So something like that they could engage in small 
talk with you about Ireland. 
 
WINELAND [00:25:30]: Exactly, exactly. And, and that would help 
probably get the word out if they really wanted to get something 
out they would know who to talk to and, and maybe engage 
somebody and try to get, get their story out or get someone to 
print it or—you know they, they can use the media. 
 
SIMS [00:25:44]: Is it ever to the level of depth where somebody 
would like bring up the fact that you were in Ireland and, you 
know— 
 
WINELAND [00:25:52]: I have. You know it’s very, it’s very rare 
that that’s happened…there’s been a couple of people that have 
done it. I had one soldier do it to me and that was a long time 
ago. That was probably in 2009, 2010 and I knew my bio so I 
wasn’t caught off guard so I told him and just kept on and he 
was asking me all these questions—where I was, where I goed to 
school in London which I looked up some stuff you know and found 
out—[laughing] and so I made it look real but the next day I had 
gotten with the O.C. and found out about him so when he came 
back into the village I, I told him I said “oh I heard that you 
went—” he said “how did you find out?” I said “I’m media.” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS: It goes both ways. 
 
WINELAND: Yeah. So I had, that was kind of funny, that was one 
thing I did to the soldier. And he was kind of worried about 
that, how I found that information out on him. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: So in that case at the start of the story when he was 
basically a little more attentive or, like— 
 
WINELAND [00:26:52]: Yeah he, he, I thought he was very good 
because not everybody looks at that bio, not everyone tries to 
find out who you are and what you’re doing there, that was very 
smart of him to do. 
 
SIMS: And would you, in that case…make a kind of internal 
decision where you might be like “oh I’m going to help him our 
more because he demonstrated this” or— 
 
WINELAND [00:27:16]: No. I treat ‘em all the same, everybody’s 
the same…but I’m nicer when they come around and talk if, if 
someone’s nice to me and, and they show me respect then I show 
them respect back. When, when they come around and ask me 
questions I respect them the way that they show me respect. If 
they’re nasty to me then I’m kind of nasty to them. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: And how, so how much of this is like—would you say your 
personality? Like— 
 
WINELAND: A lot. 
 
SIMS: Like when you’re in the box is your actual, real-life 
personality? 
 
WINELAND [00:27:46]: Yes. And— 
 
SIMS: So they, is that pretty much how they want people to be? 
 
WINELAND [00:27:51]: Yeah, yeah. Well it goes off of your bio 
and like I said, I’m a voice for my father’s people so if 
they’re messing up and they’re making mistakes and they’re 
hurting the people of course I’m gonna be upset. Because I’m an 
Atropian reporter also, you know, I’m a local reporter. So yes, 
I’d be upset about that.  
 
SIMS: Has there ever been times when you’ve ever actually felt 
really emotional about what’s happened— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah… 
 
SIMS: Or is it mostly acting? 
 
WINELAND [00:28:18]: I, I do feel emotional when I see, in the 
summer time when the soldiers come here and they’re not used to 
this heat—they come down here from Alaska and New York and those 
guys are falling out because they’re not used to this heat. Yeah 
I get emotional when you hear that and they’re being medevac-ed 
out of here. Yeah that kind of, that gets to you.  
 
SIMS: Well what about like if you were…like I think that’s 
something of course where it’s just like fellow human beings— 
 
WINELAND: Right. 
 
SIMS: American soldier— 
 
WINELAND: Well and these guys to me are young it’s like, it’s 
like looking at one of my, my kids out there—my sons, my 
daughter. It’s just, you know. You want ‘em to be alright. 
 
SIMS [00:29:02]: So I guess could you talk a little bit about 
that angle in a way because I noticed something, it’s unusual 
for me even when I started doing this in my early to mid-
thirties, like you realize I’m actually one of the oldest 
people. [laughing] Out here— 
 
WINELAND: [laughing] Yeah, yeah. 
 
SIMS: In terms of the military. 
 
WINELAND: Right. 
 
SIMS: Which is not a— 
 
WINELAND [00:29:29]: Yeah, the, the military’s very young I mean 
this, its amazing because I grew up in the military I didn’t 
think they were that young, I thought they were all old like my 
dad. [laughing] but yeah, it’s a lot of—it’s all young, yeah 
it’s young people and it does, it affects you, because they are 
so young. 
 
SIMS: And has—have you noticed any changes in terms of like 
who…the soldiers have been over I guess the couple of decades 
you’ve been on the base? Does it seem like a…it’s very similar 
to what it was in the nineties or is it—is there anything 
different about who’s in the Army now? 
 
WINELAND [00:30:11]: Yeah, it’s different. It seems different. 
It seemed like, well when my dad was in the Army, if I, if I go 
back that far, it seems like things were tougher back then in 
the Army than they are now. You know, they used to wear the 
fatigues that you had to iron, you had to spit on your boots—
all, all that stuff is done now. They’re, they’re wearing a, a 
pre-pressed stuff and so they’re, you know— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND: Their boots are already shined they don’t, they don’t 
have to do any work like that. [laughing] But…yeah. It’s, it 
seems like—but as far as the things that are happening here 
lately, it seems like there’s a lot more going on and these 
guys, a long time ago I know they didn’t send you to war two and 
three and four times in a row and they’re sending these guys—
that’s where your getting the P.S.T.—P.S.T. or whatever 
(P.S.T.D., post-traumatic stress disorder), that’s where that 
stems from because my dad, when he went to Vietnam that was like 
a year and he volunteered to go back the second time which he 
went the second year but he couldn’t go again. These guys 
they’re sending two and three and four times you know, that, 
that, that’s a difference there—that’s a big difference. 
 
SIMS: So what is, like for somebody who came through here—came 
through Fort Polk through the box once and then, then they went 
to say Afghanistan. And then they’re back home in New Jersey or 
whatever, and then they come back here again— 
 
WINELAND [00:31:40]: They get aggravated. I’ve seen it. Yeah 
they come back and they have to train again, it makes them mad—
understandably so they’ve been there but they still gotta go 
through the training again. And, and sometimes they—you feel 
like they’re taking it out on you because, but it’s not us it’s 
the military making them…I guess that because they’re in the 
military and their unit is training they have to train again. I 
guess it doesn’t matter, but—it, it hurts me to see them sending 
the same guys two and four times to a war zone. 
 
SIMS [00:32:17]: So have you actually seen people, the same 
people come through? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah. Yeah, I’ve seen it. Yeah I’ve seen a couple of 
them. And a couple of them have recognized me ‘cause I’m kind 
of, I’m kind of different out there [laughing] I have my own 
personality. [laughing]  
 
SIMS [00:32:29]: What, how do you say that? Like— 
 
WINELAND [00:32:32]: Because, I mean, like I told you I’m a 
voice for the people so whenever they mess up and stuff I’ll, 
I’ll get on them. And I’ll get like angry with them. I’m like, 
you know, “you know you’re hurting the people here you know” and 
I, I’ll get, I’ll, I’ll just show my feelings and, and I try to 
portray that kind of person that I’m a voice for these people 
what are you doing that to them for.  
 
SIMS: And they’re gonna remember that. 
 
WINELAND [00:32:57]: Oh yeah, they’re going to remember that. 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS: So do you have your own vehicle? Like how do you get 
around? 
 
WINELAND [00:33:02]: No. We’re provided a vehicle through our, 
our contractors. They— 
 
SIMS: Well I mean like so, when you…do you, are you basically in 
your office on post and do you decide ‘I’m going to go to such 
and such a village’ and find a story?  
 
WINELAND [00:33:28]: No. Every morning there’s M.E.M.S. (Media 
Engagement Management Specialist) events, what they call “mems 
events,” they’re things that are supposed to happen throughout 
the rotation and so those events, if those events are on the 
mems events for that day, he’ll—our boss will—our supervisor—
he’ll send someone to teach one of those events so that we can 
cover down on it, we get video of it, and we can record what 
happens at that event and how the soldiers react to that event.  
 
SIMS: And, I’m sorry, it’s called a mimsy event? 
 
WINELAND: A mems— 
 
SIMS: Oh. 
 
WINELAND: M-E-Ms 
 
SIMS: Do you happen to know what that—[laughing]  
 
WINELAND: [laughing] 
 
SIMS: I feel like I’ve heard it before. 
 
WINELAND  [00:34:05]: Yeah, I’m sure you have. It’s— 
 
SIMS: Media, media engagement…something. 
 
WINELAND: Media engagement something…yeah, something like that. 
No it’s not media engagement, it’s something engagement though. 
It’s different events like the I.D.P.s (Internally Displaced 
Person) which are the refugees really, is what the I.D.P.s are 
is, it’s refugees, like that’ll be a M.E.M.S. event and that 
happens, that happens like four or five times a rotation but it 
goes to different units to see how they’re gonna react, how each 
unit would react to something like that happening. You, you get 
fifteen or twenty people walking up and saying they’re starving 
and hungry and crying and have, you know wounds all over them, 
you know these soldiers, they’ve gotta know how to react, you 
know what to do in that situation—who to call.  
 
SIMS [00:34:58]: And so you’re, you’re basically told to go to 
that event because it’s rather— 
 
WINELAND: To film it and see whether— 
 
SIMS: Rather than going around randomly, go and like show you— 
 
WINELAND: Right. Well now, I, I have been, I do go around 
randomly myself when there’s M.E.M.S. events and he’ll send 
everybody else, he’ll just send me to go find something, I’m 
good at that. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: And then are you just by yourself, like are you driving 
yourself in an, an Atropian vehicle? 
 
WINELAND [00:35:20]: I go by myself, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I’m 
from Atropia I show those people around. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:35:31]:  Sometimes if I have an American reporter 
with me I’m showing them the ropes and I’m showing them Atropia, 
they, they’ve never been here. 
 
SIMS: And so do you have, do you have like are there American 
reporters? Or how-- 
 
WINELAND: Yes, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Like who are those people in real life? 
 
WINELAND [00:35:44]: Yeah well they’re, they’re international 
reporters, some are American. We have, we have, I think we had a 
Spanish reporter—they all speak English of course.  
 
SIMS: So these are role players as well— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: That are playing, not Atropian media but other type of 
media— 
 
WINELAND: Right, right we have different types of media. 
 
SIMS: And just like real life they maybe would go to an Atropian 
reporter to get the lay of the land. 
 
WINELAND [00:36:08]: Right, to find, to find out where things 
are or you may, a new person would ride with you, you know, 
you’d take them and show them the different towns and so that 
they can be able to get around by themselves. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:36:19]: And as they’re like riding around in your truck 
are you…like tell me about like, how do you go between in 
character, not in character, how do you— 
 
WINELAND [00:36:30]: I stay in character the whole time. When, 
when I hit that box my M.I.L.E.S. are on and I’m ever out of 
character again, with the R.T.U. When I see the R.T.U. I stay in 
character. They, they’ll try to get you out of character, 
they’ll say “well, well, it’s hot in Louisiana isn’t it?” and 
I’ll say “where’s, where’s that? Where’s Louisiana that must be 
somewhere in the United States. I’ve not heard of Louisiana.” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS: So do you have an acc— do you use that accent? 
 
WINELAND [00:36:58]: I do, I say—during the Afghani and Iraqi 
rotations I do use an accent. I use broken English, that’s what 
I call it. [laughing] So I’ll talk funny and, yeah. I tell ‘em I 
say “yeah I don’t know,” I say “I’ve never heard of this.” 
[laughing] They say “well where did you get the red hair?” I say 
“well what did I tell you?” I say “my mother was Irish!” I said 
“my father was Afghan.”  
 
SIMS: Yeah. Aren’t there actually like Afghans with red hair? 
 
WINELAND: Uhm I have seen some, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah.  
 
WINELAND: Yep, I have.  
 
SIMS [00:37:33]: Is it—how—is it, it sounds like it might 
actually be easier to stay in character if you’re just going to 
commit to it, right? 
 
WINELAND [00:37:39]: Yeah, well, that’s, yeah you have to. And 
you have—I mean you just don’t ever come out of character. You 
don’t let anybody pull you out of character. When the role 
players are talking amongst their-selves of course they’re not 
in character but as soon…I try to stay in character that way, 
all the time. Even when I talk to the role players I stay that 
way all, all—because you know, I’m, I’m just trying to keep it 
that way and I don’t mess up. I stay in my character. They’ll 
try, you know somebody else might come out of character, I 
can’t. I can’t stop anybody else but I don’t. I stay in my 
character. 
 
SIMS [00:38:16]: What do you think are the, essentially like 
with any job some people will do it better than others, what do 
you think like makes a good role player? 
 
WINELAND [00:38:27]: Somebody that cares about what they’re 
doing, cares about training the soldiers and, and, and is 
committed to doing that and not out there to just have fun and 
joke around, you know it’s a serious thing, it’s a serious 
matter. Those soldiers need that training so…yeah. I think there 
is a difference in role players if, if you’re just out there and 
you’re young and you’re just out there to make a little, a 
little bit of money and you’re not really concerned about why 
you’re there I think that, that doesn’t make you a good role 
player.  
 
SIMS [00:39:05]: It seems like it’s…more older people than 
younger. Is it, would you say that that’s accurate? 
 
WINELAND [00:39:14]: Yeah. Yeah there’s, there’s some young 
but…yeah it’s more, mainly older people, mainly older people. 
 
SIMS: And why, why do you think that is? 
 
WINELAND: I think because older people can stay in their 
character. [laughing] I think that they don’t cut up like young 
people would. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:39:34]: You know, and joking around and being loud 
when the R.T.U. comes into the village, you don’t want to be 
doing that.  
 
SIMS: Yeah, I, you can see how it would be tough for a young 
person— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah— 
 
SIMS: Because it’s sort of like— 
 
WINELAND [00:39:46]: Yeah they want to joke around and yeah. 
 
SIMS: Kind of like a movie set or something, right? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:39:53]: So can you tell me about a couple of your maybe 
favorite experiences either as a village role player—maybe start 
with the village role player and then, then we’ll talk about 
media on the battlefield—like things when you like look back 
over like— 
 
WINELAND [00:40:10]: Well when I first started there I was a 
village reporter so I stayed in the village, I never traveled 
around, I stayed in the village and I had my own radio station, 
and so ev—, ev—, just about every rotation I, once they started 
this they would upgrade my radio station. And it would be a big 
to do and we’d have a grand opening and a ribbon cutting 
ceremony and so that was something back then, you know evert, 
every rotation that happened I would get nice wicker furniture 
[laughing] and so that was kind of memorable. Here— 
 
SIMS [00:40:42]:  Would they, would they take the wicker 
furniture away at the end? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, well of course. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: And then it would come back again? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, yeah it would come back again the next rotation. 
[laughing] So…and they came in, the R.T.U. had come into my 
radio station and they tore my ribbon before the ceremony 
happened so I was very upset. Oh I was raising cane, they were 
in my radio station, they were turning my chair upside down 
looking under—they said they seen someone come in my radio 
station with the bag. Well I was very upset. I started throwing 
things and I, I go “you wanna turn everything over, let’s turn—” 
I go “what are you turning, you’re turning all of my things 
upside down.” [laughing] They, they were yeah and then I, they 
were so sorry, the, the poor captain they had to come back. And 
they, they wanted to fix the ribbon back, wanted to—I said “No, 
no. You just leave it.” I said “Bring your commander.” 
[laughing] And so he, and uh they were trying to do everything 
they could to resolve that matter— 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:41:37]: And I, I wasn’t letting ‘em I was like, was 
adamant that I wanted to see their commander. [laughing] 
And…but… 
 
SIMS [00:41:43]: Did they bring their commander? 
 
WINELAND [00:41:45]: But finally, no finally I, finally that 
poor little captain I had to let him off the hook. [laughing] 
He, it was, it was bad. I mean he, he, he got the, he got the 
gist of it—you don’t just walk into somebody’s building and 
start tearing their stuff up, tearing their things upside down, 
you know. So, and everybody was standing out there and just, it 
was, it was bad. [laughing] But that was one of the memorable 
moments. And then I’m here, I guess maybe…a year or so ago, they 
had like a gas attack out there and I was driving down the road 
and I was stopped at a checkpoint, soldiers had stopped me, and 
another reporter was with me, and they go “hurry up,” they go—
they’re “what are you doing? You’ve got to get to safety” and 
all of a sudden this gas busted out and they grabbed us and 
throw, slung us on the ground and put a gas mask over our faces. 
I was sitting there with a gas mask on and that was kind of 
funny. [laughing] but they were trying to save us. 
 
SIMS [00:42:40]: And then, was there an actual like gas, like 
color— 
 
WINELAND: They do the color, the sprayer, whatever— 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:42:49]: And the guy said, I mean they, they whooped 
those masks on us and they had us hit the ground and they were 
protecting us [laughing] So, you know, that was pretty, pretty 
nice—I mean that was neat, they did what you know, I mean they 
were, they were adamant about protecting us as journalists, you 
know. 
 
SIMS [00:43:04]: Was that the first time like, sounds like, 
sounds like that was a new thing. 
 
WINELAND [00:43:07]: Uh no. I think, I think they’ve done it to 
other people but that was the first time it had been done to me.  
 
SIMS: Now do you, I mean you’ve been doing this for so long and 
it, by it’s nature it’s repetitive, right? 
 
WINELAND [00:43:21]: Yeah pretty much. 
 
SIMS: So how does that, how do you keep up the— 
 
WINELAND [00:43:35]: Because I think every time—it’s a different 
person, it’s a different commander, it’s a different colonel, 
and they need the same training. So it doesn’t matter if I’ve 
done it before, I haven’t done it with them before. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND: So and they need the same training as everyone else 
got. So it’s, it’s repetitive to me but not to them. 
 
SIMS [00:43:46]:  Now when you made the shift from like…a 
village role player, although it sounds like you had some media 
component to that, and then you became a full time media on the 
battle field person— 
 
WINELAND [00:44:00]: Right. I, all I did was lose the radio 
because I was a reporter and radio personnel, I was doing it 
all, by myself then and now I’m just a reporter, I don’t do the 
radio anymore, so.  
 
SIMS [00:44:15]: Now did you get like some…any type of special 
training in real life in terms of like being media? 
 
WINELAND [00:44:20]: No, no I was just throwed into that 
position and it was just do it or fall. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND: So. 
 
SIMS: But something like that, that it’s more specialized, is 
that…like how, like…like how did you get that job? Is it because 
you had shown and demonstrated your, your skill? 
 
WINELAND [00:44:48]: Yeah I had, I, I showed my abilities when 
I, well I started off when they—well I just applied for that 
part, I was just a regular role player. And at first role play, 
that, that part of our contract was doing the radio station that 
we’re at now. But now it’s video. I moved over there when role 
play was in charge of it and I was just a role player doing it. 
But then video took over the contract with that station and, and 
so we had to reapply for our job, everybody that was there we 
had to reapply to be at that job at the radio station. And there 
was like twenty-two of us and only…I think four or six of us 
were hired back over there. But the other ones were offered, 
they could go back to role play.  
 
SIMS: Is it kind of, would it be accurate to say…  
 
WINELAND [00:45:57]: We had to take a test, on the computer and 
writing a story and remembering everything that you’ve seen. 
 
SIMS: Right. But does everyone start out in the kind of more 
general role player job and then— 
 
WINELAND: No. 
 
SIMS: Have to do a certain amount of experience before you could 
do something else? 
 
WINELAND [00:46:04]: They should but they don’t. [laughing] They 
should but they don’t. No some, it, it just depends on whether 
they’ve got a degree, we’ve had people that’ve had a degree and-
-but it’s not the same thing. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Like you mean like  a real— 
 
WINELAND: And, and they find out it’s different, like a degree 
in a English, a degree in some, some form of writing, you know—
degrees in something like that and you figure they’ll fit right 
in and be able to—but it’s different, it’s different because 
the, with our paper it’s different, it’s different writing than 
normal English that you’re used to,  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND [00:46:40]: Or some ways that people are trained, it’s 
different, you know it’s different the way that you do your 
stories. And it’s different the way we use words. Because we’re 
Atropia. [laughing] I, we’re not perfectly correct. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, it sounds like something that you, like just having 
the experience is probably the most important element to like— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, it is. 
 
SIMS: To, to kind of understand how it all works. Because it’s, 
it’s something that’s— 
 
WINELAND: It’s time, it’s time. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
WINELAND [00:47:11]: It’s just the longer you’re there the more 
you do it, yeah the easier it becomes. 
 
SIMS: So what are some of the other like specialized positions? 
Like you can be a regular villager who’s maybe like a background 
character, like what are the-- 
 
WINELAND [00:47:39]: They have moles. What they call moles that, 
they’ll have role players that will work with the American 
soldiers. They’ll see stuff and they’ll meet them in the woods 
somewhere and they’ll give them information. You know, and the 
same thing—the have moles for S.A.P.A., which is the South 
Atropian People’s Army, and that’s the bad guys, the enemy, and 
they’ll have people go to them or call them and tell them the 
Americans are doing this or that you know, so they, they have 
people that do that certain thing, you know. 
 
SIMS: And does somebody apply for the mole job or is it— 
 
WINELAND [00:48:05]: [laughing] I don’t know how they get it.  
 
SIMS: So is it just that like, oh you seem— 
 
WINELAND [00:48:08]: But I don’t want that job because that job 
could get you shot. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:48:15]: And then like who, like who gets to be mayor or 
police chief, like how— 
 
WINELAND: I think that goes through role play. Like whoever they 
think would be better suited for that job, I think it’s, it’s 
with the J.R.T.C. and role play, who they feel will be better 
suited for that job.  
 
SIMS: So they kind of look at who’s in a particular village and 
say— 
 
WINELAND [00:48:36]: Yeah and, and one, the governor that they 
use out there, he’s been prior military so they look at him as 
the governor because he kind of knows a lot about the military 
so… 
 
SIMS [00:48:48]: Makes sense.  
 
WINELAND: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Could you kind of walk me through some of the things that 
you’ve brought? 
 
WINELAND: Sure. 
 
SIMS [00:48:55]: And then, what would be helpful because we 
don’t, it’s not on video, if maybe you could first like describe 
physically what it is and then tell me what it, what it means.   
 
WINELAND [00:49:04]: Okay this, this is a picture here…this was 
in 2008 when I first started, this was in a village called Ald-
Almicel which is Marjani. That was during an Iraqi rotation. In 
Iraqi it was Almicel and in Afghan it’s Marjani. But that was 
me, that’s when I first started—I had just a little point and 
shoot camera [laughing] and I worked radio and I was a reporter 
in that village. And these are cultural role players, I told you 
that we had, these men right here, all of these men right here 
are cultural role players—they came from Iraq, well they lived 
in different cities here, but they spoke Iraq, so when the 
soldiers come in they, we didn’t speak at all, they-these guys 
would speak to them. If they didn’t have an interpreter, they 
couldn’t talk [laughing] so, and that was teaching them about 
having an interpreter and they had to know the language. And… 
 
SIMS [00:50:04]: And then so, the clothes that everybody’s 
wearing— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah— 
 
SIMS: Is that supplied by— 
 
WINELAND [00:50:10]: The garb that—this stuff here that, that 
the role players have on, that was supplied by [burp] oh, excuse 
me, Cubic and role play. The stuff that these guys wore, that 
was their own stuff. I think he had, one of these guys here, he 
had on something from role play, but usually they just wore 
their own clothes, the cultural role players.  
 
SIMS [00:50:37]: I think I know this— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, you might know them. A couple of those guys 
brought me a scarf from New York or something one time, they 
were really nice people.  
 
SIMS: And like what types of jobs did they have other thank 
working like, at Fort Polk? 
 
WINELAND [00:50:56]: Well I heard that some of them had a, a 
store, worked in a store…and…I think one had a liquor store, one 
smoke shop, I guess like that, that they did. I didn’t get too 
friendly with them, we weren’t supposed to be real friendly with 
them, like that, you know because they were…I don’t know—they 
just didn’t want us buying things for them, going to the store 
for them, stuff like that, they told us not to, so. Because they 
had to keep, you know, with them being here, on, on the base, 
they wanted to keep things right. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:51:41]: So yeah, we weren’t supposed to get too 
overly friendly with them [laughing]. And, this picture here is 
a picture of me in the same village, that was my radio station 
and I was reading the newspaper because I read the news to the 
people in the village every morning, I, I read the news three 
times a day to the people in the village.  
 
SIMS [00:52:02]: So that would, that would, would that be 
actually broadcast over the speakers? 
 
WINELAND [00:52:04]: Yes, yeah. I would go in my radio station 
and tell them “good morning this is—” I was Delela, “this is 
Delela, I’m bringing you your local news” and I would read out 
of the newspaper, tell them what was going on in different 
villages, and then I’d say “thank you and tune in later” 
[laughing].  
 
SIMS [00:52:26]:  About like how long would it take to 
broadcast? 
 
WINELAND [00:52:28]: A newscast I would read like three clips of 
a story and I would tell them the weather [laughing] and then 
I’d wait—I’d do that three times, then I’d do the call to prayer 
when it was time to go to call to prayer, I would play— 
 
SIMS: And what does that sound like? 
 
WINELAND [00:52:45]: Well I, I had a, a recording of it but I 
had it recorded on my recorder and I had a real guy singing it, 
I’d rather use the, the role players, the cultural role players 
to do it live than I had, we had the, the MP3 player and it was 
recorded on there the call to prayer, we could use that and play 
that over the radio, but I would usually get one of those guys, 
they loved to do it, so I would get them to come down to the 
radio station and give them the megaphone and they would do the 
call to prayer right there [laughing] and everyone would go to 
the mosque. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:53:18]: And when they did that was there an Imam? 
 
WINELAND: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Or somebody who was in— 
 
WINELAND: Yes, yeah.  
 
SIMS: Would they have an actual, like service? For any length of 
time? 
 
WINELAND [00:53:24]: Well it wasn’t, it was a—probably to them 
it was a service, they would have their own little service 
because they normally did that anyway, but the role players 
didn’t have to join into that, you know. It was just for looks. 
You know they had to go into the mosque and stand in there so if 
the soldiers were looking…it looked real.  
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
WINELAND [00:53:44]:  And they would know what that sound was, 
they would know what that song was, they would know that’s the 
call to prayer and that’s the time for them to go to the mosque. 
So they kind of trained them not to go to the mosque or not to 
disturb those things…you know ‘cause if you disturbed call to 
prayer there was a big price to pay for that [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Like what would happen? 
 
WINELAND: Oh, people would get very distraught [laughing]. Yeah 
that was bad, that was bad news.  
 
SIMS: Yeah I think I saw that once. 
 
WINELAND [00:54:12]: Yeah you don’t want to disturb anybody at 
call to prayer [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Right, and these other things were your basically, like— 
 
WINELAND: And these were called PEFS (Performance Evaluation 
Form). 
 
SIMS: And what’s, what’s that word? 
 
WINELAND: Pifs.  
 
SIMS: Is that P-I-F-S? 
 
WINELAND: [sigh] P-I-F-S? I, it’s a, performance evaluation 
form. Uh, PEF, P-E-F, Performance Evaluation Form, and these are 
just for doing something good, they see you doing something 
helping the soldiers and they think you did a great job, they 
think you went out of your way to do a good job, you would get 
one of these. 
 
SIMS [00:54:51]: And this is the, the O.C.s (Observer 
Controllers) would do that? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, they would have to put you in for it, this 
couldn’t come from anybody else, it couldn’t come from another 
role player, it could maybe come from somebody higher up, but 
these were very rare, to get these.  
 
SIMS: Like how, like would you get like one a year, or like, 
potentially? 
 
WINELAND [00:55:14]: Well no, some— 
 
SIMS: Or is it more— 
 
WINELAND: You could be there ten years and never get one at all. 
[lauging] Yeah. Bill David signed it, he’s the boss and he’s the 
head, yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:55:33]: And how do they present that to you? Is there a 
like— 
 
WINELAND: They’ll usually just give it to you. They’ll co-a-a-a-
at one of your safety briefings they’ll call you up front and 
tell you you got one and— 
 
SIMS [00:55:46]: Right. Is it a surprise when you get it? Or do 
you— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah.  
 
WINELAND [00:55:51]: You don’t know about it.  
 
SIMS: That must be a nice feeling. 
 
WINELAND: Oh it is. Yeah and I got three of ‘em. I got three 
different ones.  
 
SIMS: And actually can you, that would be a great, if we could 
go back to the first one, can you tell me what you did to earn 
it? 
 
WINELAND [00:56:07]: Okay since I’m here, I can’t remember it’s 
been so long. This one here was 2015. It just says…battle field 
effects, role play—civilians on battle field…is what they 
checked. And it says “the support provided to the media on the 
battlefield program is nothing short of excellent. The 
journalists pursue stories, always arrives on-time and is on the 
right locations. They also feel the same roles each rotation. 
They know their jobs and are committed to the M.O.B. (Main 
Operating Base] progress. These guys make the M.O.T.B. what it 
is and we couldn’t provide such an asset to training R.T.U. 
(Returned to Unit) as we do. Brenda is a fantastic local media 
personality and shows that in roles she plays. She’s always 
cheerful and pursued all facts in her stories. She is awesome.” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:57:10]: Was there a— 
 
WINELAND: That’s signed by a “what can I say lady? Bill David. 
You rock.” [laughing] You know Carol put her name on there—“to 
Brenda,” “to Brenda, from Carol.” I guess they gave it to her. 
She gets the call if we get one and they let her know that we 
got one. And this one here is from…2010…And this one says “Role 
play civilian, Brenda was an outstanding asset to the training 
in the town of Marjani for rotation 1005. Her positive attitude 
and motivation as the radio station operator and media personnel 
contributed greatly to the amount of training received by the 
one hundred and first airborne.” 
 
SIMS: So your name is it supposed to be like Delila at all? 
 
WINELAND [00:58:06]: D—I’ve been to, during the Iraqi it was 
Delela [laughing]— 
 
SIMS: Right, but you know the radio show that I’m talking about, 
right? Delila? 
 
WINELAND [00:58:13]:  Oh yeah, oh Del—oh my gosh she drives me 
crazy, Delila in the Morning. [laughing] Delila [singing]. 
 
SIMS: Right, but it’s not, it’s not like an inside joke or, is 
it? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah [laughing] no. The Iraqis used to sing to me, the 
cultural role players, they would get so excited when I come, I 
don’t know why, because I guess the call to prayer-‘cause they 
would get to sing their call to prayer you know, on the radio— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WINELAND [00:58:36]: They would sing as soon as I got in the 
village “Delela, Delela, Delela,” they’d all start clapping.  
 
SIMS: How do you, how do you spell that? 
 
WINELAND: D-E-L-E-L-A, Delela. And I can’t read this one, it’s 
too small writing I can’t read it…This one is a 2011…Oh from, 
something for the village reporter for Marjani. 
 
SIMS: Oh that is really small. 
 
WINELAND [00:59:09]: Yeah. [laughing] I can’t read it but it’s 
got to be something really good. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Do you mind if I read it? I might be able to— 
 
WINELAND: Yeah, sure. 
 
SIMS [00:59:17]: “The village observation, the village reporter 
for Marjani…is extremely knowledgeable and adaptive to the 
training environment in J.R.T.C. (Joint Readiness Training 
Center). Her ability to adjust to the training requests of the… 
T.M.s—“? 
 
WINELAND: Yeah. Training Mentors. That was another name for 
O.C.s (Officer Commander). [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:59:37]: “—to accomplish the desired effects on the 
R.T.U. (Returned to Unit) is outstanding. She understands the 
cultural…intrinsically—” I think “behind a Muslim female 
reporter and is an invaluable training asset.” And it says up-
top “Brenda, thank you so much for the professional way in which 
you carry out your duties. People like you make all the 
difference, truly. I owe you one next time at the V—” 
 
WINELAND [01:00:14]: A beer [laughing] that’s Bill David. The 
V.F.W.  
 
SIMS: I guess as we’re wrapping up, is there anything that we 
haven’t talked about that you think is important for people to 
know about what it’s like to be a role player at Fort Polk? 
 
WINELAND [01:00:37]: Well, I think we pretty much went into what 
it’s like to be a role player at Fort Polk, but what it’s like 
to be a soldier to come to Fort Polk and train, it’s really hard 
on those guys. They, I mean they’re a nervous wreck, especially 
after media gets a hold of them. But, it’s all what we do is for 
the soldiers to make sure that they return safe and I feel good 
about what we do. I just feel that you know, I feel that they 
need the training and I just hate that, like what we talked 
about earlier, that some of them have to go many times. I wish 
they could change that, but. And I appreciate those guys. I 
appreciate each and every one of them, and the women. They all 
do, you know I mean, they, they’ve got our hearts. I think 
that’s why a lot of role players are there. You know it’s, the 
money, you know people need money, that’s why they work. But to 
have this job, you know you stay. Most of the people that are 
there have been there have been there a long time because it, 
you know it just touches your heart. You wanna help the 
soldiers. So, even though sometimes the job is stressful, 
[laughing] we continue to do it over and over. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [01:02:12]: Yeah, I think it’s a, it’s a little bit, it was 
surprising for me to realize—one it’s very hot. 
 
WINELAND: Yes. 
 
SIMS: You know and it is like physically exhausting, when I 
would get back to my room— 
 
WINELAND: Oh yeah.  
 
SIMS: I wouldn’t really know until that happened—  
 
WINELAND: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: —and then I would just, lie there. 
 
WINELAND: Oh yeah. 
 
 
SIMS [01:02:36]: But it is, you know it’s stressful, that’s 
different from an everyday normal life.  
 
WINELAND: Oh yeah.  
 
SIMS: Just because there’s a certain energy that— 
 
WINELAND: Yep. Well it’s a, it’s a continual, I mean you’re 
continually moving out there, there’s things constantly 
happening, so…the R.T.U. can’t just be still. They, there’s 
things constantly—they’re constantly planning their next move, 
there’s things they have to do, you know. And it is hot out 
there. There’s people falling out from you know, dehydration, 
you know not getting enough, enough water. I think that a lot of 
them are drinking those, those energy drinks or whatever and 
they don’t realize how hot it is here when they come. So, yep.  
 
SIMS: Alright, well thank you very much for— 
 
WINELAND: Well, thank you Chris. 
 
SIMS: For the interview.