Prevatt, James 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
September 30, 2017 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:09]: I just want one quick question before we launch 
in, if you could say and then spell your name, please— 
 
PREVATT [00:00:16]: Okay…[clears throat] my name is 
James…Prevatt, that’s P-R-E-V-A-T-T and…I go by the name of 
Jack, J-A-C-K.  
 
SIMS [00:00:34]: Okay, great. Why don’t you start off where you 
think makes sense—you said you were, you were just telling me 
you were the first role player hired here at Fort Polk so 
maybe…if you could let us know what year we’re talking about and 
how’d you— 
 
PREVATT: Okay— 
 
SIMS: How you got into it? 
 
PREVATT [00:00:53]: How I got into it, the company that had the 
contract at the time was…B.D.M. {Braddock, Dunn & McDonald} and 
I went through a total of three contractors…but B.D.M. had a 
blurb out about what role players did and…it, before I tell you 
when I got started it was needing people to go fishin’, needing 
people to act like farmers, needing people to a, be school 
teachers and city administrators and I was working a civil 
service job at the time but I knew the people who were gonna run 
the contract— 
 
SIMS [00:01:33]: Was it a civil service job at, on post? 
 
PREVATT [00:01:36]: Yes, it was working at D.R.M.O. on Fort 
Polk. And…guy that was setting this up…doing the hiring and 
stuff was Tom Berry and Tom Berry and I were in Vietnam together 
and we’ve been lifelong friends ever since. So…and it was…let’s 
see, let me just, bear with me a second…ninety, okay eighty-
seven, ninety-two, ninety-five I think it was…nineteen ninety-
five…and so I went down to a little room, something like this, 
and they had a, a book, and it showed what role players did and 
of course they were hired for everything and almost all of them 
took computer literacy so they just wiped me out of them…I’m old 
school [laughing].  
 
SIMS [00:02:57]: Even the role player jobs needed computer 
literacy? 
 
PREVATT [00:03:01]: Yes, some of the jobs in role play like the 
manager and system manager and things like this— 
 
SIMS [00:03:08]: Right.  
 
PREVATT [00:03:09]: So I started off as a role player one…which 
is an entry-level role player and no idea what I was gonna do 
[laughing] and…T.D. Holcomb was the boss there and Tom Berry was 
above him. So they hired me, told me what day I was gonna go in 
and basically what I was gonna do, is work. When I got off of 
work at 4:15 at D.R.M.O. I report to work there at five o’clock 
and worked from five ‘til midnight and, and I done 
that…Wednesday I had off and on weekends I worked from six ‘til 
whenever I got off, Saturday and Sunday, and— 
 
SIMS [00:04:03]: You’re allowed to have y—basically did two jobs 
for a while? 
 
PREVATT [00:04:06]: I did two jobs for a year and it…[laughing] 
just about killed me. I mean it was very, very long…but I had no 
idea what I was gonna do was what I was saying when I got there. 
So, the first thing I had to do was they had a training session 
where everybody had to qualify…in certain tasks. They had like 
map reading and…leadership…driving, basic driving the military 
vehicles…different kinds of, of tasks you had to do. Well I knew 
T.D. and I knew Tom Berry so I got in there and I was a student. 
And they come in there when the first class started and it was 
on…corporate policies. So they put it out and I listened to that 
stuff how if you invent something it belongs to the company and 
all this kind of stuff. So, I was sitting there listening to it 
and T.D. called me outside and he said “look Jack”…he said “the 
next class is redundant stuff I don’t want you, you don’t have 
to listen to that…it’s on OP-Sec, operational security and stuff 
like that.” He said, “I want you to teach map reading.” I said 
“what?” I said, “I’m supposed to be a student here.” He said 
“no, well you know how to read a map, I want you to teach map 
reading.” Only had thirty-seven people in the class. I said 
“Okay.” So I went outside and got all the materials together and 
went in and taught map reading and it went without fail. 
[laughing] The funny thing was, it was, I did an old trick that 
I learned…in ranger school in, they had a map and so I told 
everybody in the class, I said “turn your map over” and they all 
turned it over and it was white, just a white side, and they 
said “what are we gonna do with that?” said “I’m just gonna show 
you where you’re at right now. And then, I’m gonna show you 
where you’re gonna go. So, we started with that and it’s okay 
said “everybody turn your maps over.” And then I went through 
all the stuff that needed, basic stuff, to learn how to r—and I 
could, I could see lights, just coming in their eyes when they 
could figure out something and you know the same thing I’d done 
when I had instructed all my life so I said “ah, this is the job 
for me, I like this.” Students were eager to learn, they’re a, 
most of ‘em were young people, a lot of…very young girls with a 
lot of talent and I said “well we’re gonna figure out how to do 
this,” I said, you know I said “I don’t know how they gonna play 
this, I said “but I think that the focus will be more on the 
girls than it will be on the training.” So, at the time there 
was no dress-code whatsoever and so the young girls of course 
were wearing their little short skirts and different things like 
that, so…the guy we had as the…the…project manager at the time, 
he kind of felt the same way I did. And one day he was at…one of 
the offices up there doing the briefing and they had a place 
where they had to go pick up distribution, and role play was 
down on the bottom shelf. So, pick-up stuff and leave. And the 
same girl would come up there and pick it up everyday. About two 
or three days later they had moved her up to the second shelf, 
and then the third shelf, and then the fourth shelf so that she 
had to really reach up with the mini-skirt on and…he said “we’ve 
gotta have a dress code.” [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:09:08]: Right.  
 
PREVATT [00:09:10]: So it went from there…and I was, like I was 
on the building stages of this whole things and they had, they 
had all kind of, of, of impossible standards that they want-
wanted to…impose. I sat down with the project manager one day I 
asked for an audience with ‘em and went up and said “look, y’all 
going about this all wrong. I’ve been training all my life—I 
know how to train, I know how to do everything.” I said “but you 
can’t take people off the street and expect them to understand 
military leadership, military rules and all that stuff, you’ve 
gotta break it down to their level…and…get something heavy, if 
you want to accomplish your task— 
 
SIMS [00:10:01]: This is like, in terms of vocabulary or— 
 
PREVATT [00:10:04]: Vocabulary…action— 
 
SIMS [00:10:06]: Expectations 
 
PREVATT [00:10:07]: Expectations…like…the one guy that was in 
charge of transportation, was a retired E-7 {seventh enlisted 
rank in the army} so he taught a class right after my map 
reading and he got in there and…he started yelling “at ease” and 
“be quiet” and all this stuff and…so one of the, [laughing] one 
of the guys told him, he said “kiss my ass,” you know he said, 
he said “I don’t need this crap” he said “if you gonna talk to 
me you talk to me like a human.” And so…the T.D. just timed out 
and he took both them guys outside and then, they went on from 
there he said “you can’t talk to these people like you would a 
bunch of raw recruits, these are civilians. He said “you’ve 
gotta, like the they say in the army, you’ve gotta tell them…go 
to hell in such a manner that they look forward to the trip.” 
And he said, “you know, you’ve gotta put it in their language 
and break everything down on how we want it.” So— 
 
SIMS [00:11:21]: Do you, so it sounds like you feel like you ha-
like you had, you had that understanding. So how-and you were 
telling the boss, basically  
 
PREVATTT: Right. 
 
SIMS: This is-this is what you gotta do. 
 
PREVATT [00:11:32]: And this is what we gotta do so we worked as 
a team—it didn’t take long…for, if you will for the cream to 
come to the top of the milk you know…T.D. says Tom Berry was 
right…And he…I don’t wanna sound egotistical in all of this 
[laughing] but he said, he said “you the man.” He says “now 
you’re gonna be the go-to guy to deal with the role player stuff 
because you understand what we gotta do…I had already retired 
form the army, I had worked with civilians, and I hated civil 
service with a passion; I could not stand it…  
 
SIMS [00:12:19]: Why, why was that? Because of the bureaucracy 
or— 
 
PREVATT [00:12:23]: Well because the people were so scared of 
each other…the equal opportunity had just came in and what they 
couldn’t understand, they could not get it through their thick 
skulls that E.O. (Equal Opportunity) was for everybody—black and 
white and Mexican, women, males, whatever. Just because a black 
person told you they were gonna go to E.O., go do what you gotta 
do, then I’ll go and we’ll lay our stories out and see what 
happens. And the bosses were so scared to write anybody up on 
anything that they was scared of repercussions and stuff. They 
were good people they were just sissies, and I couldn’t stand 
that. So I put up with that for about three years…and I finally 
one day, I said you know what? I said, “I make fifteen dollars 
and hour here.” I said “role play I make six dollars an hour, 
and it’s not guaranteed—I might work today I might not work 
today-but I tell you what, I’d rather have the six dollars an 
hour and be happy than I would to be working with y’all and be 
dissatisfied, bye.” So I left. And I went to work in role play 
full-time. Well not full time, full-time you had to wait ‘til a 
job to open up. 
 
SIMS [00:14:54]: Right. You also had, you also had d-you had 
army retirement? 
 
PREVATT: Yes. 
 
SIMS: So that— 
 
PREVATT [00:13:57]: I had my army retirement plus my wife worked 
so I, I had a little…leverage on my side. So…I went over and I 
really put my heart into this…role playing job—into what I got 
to do and basically, I had a lot of skills…I knew how to install 
telephones, I knew how to do electrical work, I knew how to do 
carpenter work…everything but vehicle—I’m a shitty mechanic. But 
I can do just about everything else—paint, sheetrock, whatever. 
So they took these old buildings and they were fixing them up 
and I started getting more and more hours coming there working 
there by myself, getting it done-- 
 
SIMS [00:14:53]: Is this the— 
 
PREVATT: beside role playing. 
 
SIMS [00:14:54]: Is this the villages themselves or like— 
 
PREVATT [00:14:55]: No this is the main office we were in.  
 
SIMS [00:14:58]: Is it—and that’s a, that’s a like a con—office 
a contractor used on post? 
 
PREVATT [00:15:04]: Yes. We had a, a place that was given to us 
by the army, an old World War II building, long building like 
that—you went like this and there was grass growing up through 
the— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: -cracks in the floors and stuff and possible of heat 
and then possible of cool…So we started to gut it—started 
working on it. It was two buildings side-by-side…So, I connected 
the two buildings with a walkway…and I—got—one of the things I’m 
famous for is having numerous friends on Fort Polk. At D.R.M.O. 
I met every entity of Fort Polk.  
 
SIMS [00:15:51]: What does D.R.M.O. stand for? 
 
PREVATT: …Depart—Directed at Resource Management Office.  
 
SIMS [00:15:57]: Okay, that was the civil service job? 
 
PREVATT [00:15:58]: Yes, that was the civil service job but 
everybody on Fort Polk turned stuff in there so…by working there 
I met all these different people, so when I got out 
there…basically it was a barter system.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: And I said “hey I need this roof put up, what do you 
need?” “Well…we need some coffee.” We had to buy coffee but 
look, I said “look we can slide a little coffee off here and 
there” and…we got the roof built. And then…I said I…I knew how 
they worked and I said “look, we need to pour a, a concrete pad 
back here. I said “I don’t want no new concrete.” I said, “if 
you have any left over when you pour a job would you have the 
driver give me a call, come up here, we’ll have it formed up and 
ready, twenty-four hours of the day. And he come over and poured 
it. And then we poured a driveway. And just, whatever it was, 
you had to have a people person in there. 
 
SIMS [00:17:04]: So it sounds like there’s this whole…unofficial 
but critical system…that you have to figure out to really get 
things done. 
 
PREVATT [00:17:14]: You have to figure it out. You have to…you 
gotta remember that one hand washes the other and you’ve got a 
friendship thing here. You’re not stealing government money, 
you’re taking waste and putting it to work. We done the same 
thing on our first rotation…we went out and practiced a couple 
of times first and, and they were miserable. 
 
SIMS: The role players? 
 
PREVATT: The role players, they were miserable because they…they 
don’t, they did not understand task conditioning standard…the 
army had us out there as part of a training tool and they wanted 
to…let the soldiers have to deal with civilians on a battle 
field. They were basically, we were basically a nuisance, we 
were something in the way but something they had to take care of 
because C.N.N. {Cable News Network} and everybody else, you 
couldn’t abuse them and do this, so then they started brining, 
on that first rotation, the civil affairs officers. Civil 
affairs officers are all National Guard, Special Forces, and 
they know just about as much about their job as one of them role 
players did because they trained, what—one weekend a month and 
two weeks a year so they come in there. But I got ahold of one 
of their books, on of their F.M.s {field manual} and figured out 
exactly what they were supposed to do so if they didn’t do it I 
knew it. And you could take them for their, for their word on 
whatever they said, they would try, but they were taking 
[laughing] role player like, they could promise anything because 
it’s just play. It don’t work that way brother. You promise a 
civilian on a battlefield something, then if you don’t come 
through with it they’re gonna complain to your higher and 
they’re gonna go, like— 
 
SIMS [00:19:28]: So, like, yeah give me an example. 
 
PREVATT: A, an example was…they were gonna evacuate…all of the 
people from this one particular town and they said “bring 
everybody.” I said “what about if we’ve got somebody sick?” And 
they said “well, bring em” they said, “we’ve got a C-1-30 coming 
and we’ll load you up and fly you out.” I said “okay, that 
sounds good.” And…so…we met them at the air field and we got up 
to the airfield and they said “what do you got?” and we said 
“well, these two over here have A.I.D.S, this one over here’s 
got syphilis, this one over here’s got this, this one over 
here’s got T.B…” “is it active?” “yeah it’s active. So we kinda 
cough when we get around ‘em but it’ll be okay.” And…so we had 
all these people—so we can’t put them on planes. Said “wait, 
wait, I asked you could we put, bring sick people, you said 
yes.” And then I had a bunch of goats and pigs and dogs and 
chickens and, we had all them animals out there … 
 
SIMS [00:20:41]: Like real animals, real animals? 
 
PREVATT: Real animals. So I got all these we gone put on the C-
130 and the whole thing was to drive a point to these people, 
don’t promise what you can’t do. And so the O.C. seen what was 
going on, they called him into it, we took the chickens back, 
the people got well and then we sat down and we talked to these 
guys about what their failure was. And it was a great training 
point for them ‘cause, you know you go to a foreign country, you 
go over here and let your mouth overload your butt you gonna be 
in trouble. I said “real trouble,” I said “they’re not gonna put 
up with it. Anyone who’s ever been to a foreign country, and I 
been to many of ‘em, I said “the first thing you want is that 
America’s a great big land of opportunity and y’all have 
everything so, give me some of it.” And if you don’t produce 
after you said you will, you just made an enemy for life. So…or 
you could have a friend for life, depending on how you play it, 
so.  
 
SIMS [00:21:49]: So in a case like that, what would have been 
the better answer for the civil affairs? 
 
PREVATT: Follow the book. Follow the—the book tells ‘em what to 
do, got an F.M. on there that says when you go in there you sit 
down, you have a meeting, you discuss this stuff, and don’t 
promise anything that you can’t keep. Always tell ‘em you have 
to go check with higher—check with this, you have to check with 
that--you’ll get back to them. Then you schedule a second 
meeting and you go back in there and that gives you an out—
“well, I tried to get this for you but my boss won’t let me do 
it.” And, and they’re clear. White slate straight across the 
board, everybody understands no. And that was the right way to 
play it. But you don’t…go in there and tell ‘em--the chief of 
police--you’re gonna do this, you’re gonna do that. “Woah, woah, 
woah it’s my town,”—you ask. And I’ll tell you where I can. So 
it was a learning experience from both sides, at the 
beginning…of, of this thing. These guys, they were either on the 
first rotation—they were either, too scared to do something, the 
role players were, they didn’t want to interact--you had to beat 
them in the, getting out there and…and becoming part of the 
scenario; or they were overanxious and everybody wanted to kill 
the Americans when the scenario required us to be in a passive 
position. So they didn’t understand, even though we’d told ‘em 
fifty times, what the scope was, what the overall desired 
effects was, and what we wanted to do… 
 
SIMS [00:23:49]: Well I mean this is the very first time, right? 
SO-- 
 
PREVATT: Very first time. Everybody was going through-- 
 
SIMS: Right, growing pains-- 
 
PREVATT: I…I lost if a couple of times and got mad…stuff I 
shouldn’t done. All the buildings we had were just shells. All 
facades just everywhere. Wadsn’t a chair and a building, wasn’t 
nothing. So one of the other things that I did, I worked at 
D.R.M.O., so— 
 
SIMS [00:24:20]: Was this still when you’re working both jobs? 
 
PREVATT: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PREVATT: So…the way the government dollars worked, if you sell 
stuff at D.R.M.O. on a public auction, you get about ten, 
fifteen percent of the value of what it was. If you reuse it, 
get find someone who needs it and let them draw it out and reuse 
it, then you get one-hundred percent of the value of it. So for 
the sales record and stuff for the head guy and D.R.M.O. it just 
runs his profit statement way up. So I said “ahhhh.” 
 
SIMS: Right… 
 
PREVATT: So…you know what this, where this is leading. And so 
the C.O. [cough], the contract and offers representative, she’s 
the one who manages the contract for the government, and the 
project manager manages it for B.D.M. {Braddock, Dunn & 
McDonald} so…I got a hold of her which I happened to know, like 
I knew everyone on Fort Polk just about [laughing] so I said 
“will you go with us up there and let us screen some stuff and 
see if we can start filling up these villages with furniture and 
stuff?” We went up there and just got tons and tons and tons of 
stuff. We got tools, broken tools for the filling station, and 
we got tires for the tire fixing place, we got furniture— 
 
SIMS [00:25:52]: Right— 
 
PREVATT: Everything.  
 
SIMS: Basically, there was nothing you couldn’t use probably, 
right? 
 
PREVATT [00:25:57]: No-nothing. No matter what it was, even if 
it was clutter— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: TO make the village look lived in and real. 
 
SIMS: You solved two problems at once. 
 
PREVATT: All at the same time, didn’t cost us a dime. And we 
started doing that. And, gradually, through no fault, I mean, 
through no…nothing to do with me alone is--I would come up with 
these ideas and they would buy it and I was gradually becoming a 
valuable employee. Not just because I just worked at D.R.M.O., 
because my military experience, because my ability to be people 
person, my ability to instruct, my ability to do different 
things and it really got me started. And I’m not trying to boast 
or nothing else, it just, it was my natural forte— 
 
SIMS [00:26:53]: Right. 
 
PREVATT: It just fell right in to what I do. 
 
SIMS [00:26:55]: Yeah, you were like, you didn’t know it, but 
basically everything prepared you like just for that job, right? 
 
PREVATT [00:27:01]: Yep. And I had done so many things in the 
past that…prior to working at that D.R.M.O. job I had a, I had a 
contracting business right after I got out of the Army-- 
 
SIMS: What type of con—like what type of contract? 
 
PREVATT: It was underground construction. So-- 
 
SIMS: Like sewers and— 
 
PREVATT: No, [laughing] that’s what I called it—burying wires 
and, for the telephone company. I had a subcontract with them 
and with the cable TV plant. And, the hardest job I ever done in 
my life. I worked by butt off from daytime to dark. And…I built 
it up to three employees besides me. My wife did the books and…I 
did that for five years. Best shape I’ve ever been in in my life 
because you work and work and work and work and…it was a, it was 
a dead-end job—I could see it going, it was, you bury wires, 
little wires and big wires and you bury big wires and little 
wires but I mean, that’s it. There’s nothing else there. 
Underground insurance because, a fiber optic if you cut one 
[sigh]…so underground insurance was so expensive. And then, if 
you have people doing that, then your workman’s comp that you’ve 
gotta pay is outrageous, and you really had to hustle to make 
money. So finally I gave it up. That’s when I went, I applied 
for a job at civil services…I’m not from Louisiana originally, 
I’m from Florida. So…Fort Polk is, is a nepotism city. They hire 
people they know from Leesville, DeRidder, Alexandria, around 
this area, family members, all this other stuff and I didn’t get 
it. I applied for fifty jobs, couldn’t get none of ‘em. 
 
SIMS [00:28:07]:  Even though you had been around for— 
 
PREVATT: Yep, didn’t matter to them. 
 
SIMS: You were still removed. 
 
PREVATT: I couldn’t, I…very well qualified for the jobs I asked 
for so…how I got on a D.R.M.O. was they did the hiring out of 
Ogden, Utah. [laughing] And so— 
 
SIMS: And so it’s more fair, right? 
 
PREVATT [00:29:28]: Yeah, more fair. They just look at your 
resumé and all that stuff. I got a call to go down. Now of 
course a guy from…DeRidder, he was…the one who’d done the 
hiring. Me and him hit it off right off. And…and he said “man I 
want you, you’re, you’re the kind of guy I’m looking for, that I 
can talk to.” So I went to work out there…for him. And he’s one 
of the guys that--loved him to death--but was just as big a 
pussy as you ever seen in your life when it come to dealing with 
people. He, he knew how to talk to people…and make them happy. 
But he could not chew nobody out. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [00:30:28]: An example was…they had a, a scale. If you 
done, if you go this many attaboys and you got this much done 
and you moved this much material then you qualified for a bonus 
at the end of the year…Well, I got a bonus that year, fifteen 
hundred dollars--okay. So the next year I was well above 
everybody in the same thing and marketed. But he called me in he 
says “you know you won it.” He said, and “you deserved a bonus.” 
He said, “but I’ve got to make everybody happy, I’m gonna give 
it to somebody else.” So I tell him I say “that’s horse shit.” I 
said “you got a standard you’ve gotta follow it.” 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
PREVATT: And…and he gave it to some clown who half assed his job 
just to make him happy and shut him up and I seen right then 
that the civil service is not for me. And…that’s the one, one of 
the things that made me come straight to role play. And it was, 
it was lean times for the first year but… 
 
SIMS [00:31:40]: So how did you dec—basically, did you get more 
work with role play and then, then you could do that? 
 
PREVATT [00:31:46]: I started getting more and more and more 
work. My work in there was in between rotations nobody works, 
but in between rotations I could put telephone lines in for ‘em, 
I could remodel buildings for ‘em, and…whatever they needed I 
could do. So I got work all them time. And then they let me 
pick, when I needed more people, they let me pick the crew I 
wanted. Well, I picked guys I knew that had skills. And we’d go 
in there and we’d get things done and then they started giving 
them more time. And then the…project manager see we was getting 
a lot of stuff done so he said “look, we’ve got to move out of 
these buildings over here to another building and we’ve gotta do 
it in a timely manner.” He said “could you get the right kind of 
crew in here to go down and get us moved?” I said, I said “there 
ain’t many things in this world I can’t do, boss.” I said “but 
you tell me what you want and it’ll get done. That I 
guaranteed.” So we went down there and we started moving. We got 
it all moved, we had one building to go. Now, this is kind of 
like Readers Digest says we gonna have a motivational weekend or 
team work where we get to working together. Now for the 
employees you gonna have all the hot dogs and beans you want. 
For the supervisors gonna have steak and lobster. You know 
really gonna bring people together. So it was the same way 
there. We got down to moving this and this one guy sitting there 
with his little Docker jeans on, these little Docker shoes, and 
all dressed up and spiffy looking, sitting on the porch watching 
us clean out his building. And…he made the comment “hey…y’all 
need to move this.” And I said “hey…I asked you guys to take 
some of the stuff out of your desk so it ain’t so hard to move 
it out and ain’t so heavy.” He said “hey well if you want it out 
you can move it out.” Thought “let me tell you something you 
little dick-headed thumb [laughing] this the way it’s gonna 
work. Now you gonna go clean your desk out or I’m a gone clean 
you out, one of the two.” And it went around and around and 
around so I said “hell with this, you guys go back to North 
Fort, this jobs over.” So I just left everything like it was and 
I went straight to the project manager’s office. I said “look 
here,” I said “you got a team, you asked me to come down and 
help you move from one building to another. And the key word 
here the operative word is help. So I come over to help and you 
got these guys sitting there in their little fancy clothes and 
shit and they think they too good to help move it out—they think 
they just two or three steps above us—” 
 
SIMS [00:34:57]: Right. 
 
PREVATT [00:34:58]: “--we’re all employees.” And…I was, I was 
actually teary eyed I was so mad. I wanted to choke this—and the 
boss said “I got it, this is mine.” So he walked over, found 
this guy like that and brought him in. He said “how’d, how’d the 
moving go?” He said “it went pretty good I had a little trouble 
with that Prevatt guy.” Said…“he wanted us to help.” “Did y’all 
help?” He said  “no.” “I--here’s what we gonna do. Either he 
gonna leave his people up at North Fort, he’s gonna bring his 
trucks and trailers and drivers up here and y’all will come in 
tomorrow with your jeans on and you’re gonna come in with your 
gloves on, and you’re gonna move all of the rest of the stuff 
yourself. You weren’t happy with what was going—you didn’t want 
to do a little bit so now you’re gonna do a lot.” So he made ‘em 
move all the stuff and he cried and whined and moaned and, and 
they weren’t gonna make a deadline so they called us back I said 
“we’ll come.” And the project manager called me himself. Now 
you’ve gotta imagine that at the time there’s probably fifteen, 
sixteen hundred people on contract here at Fort Polk and project 
manager called me, a low-life role player, and talked to me 
personally and asked me if he could come up and talk to me. And 
he comes up here and everybody’s like this and he comes up there 
and I said “can I help you?” Said “Yeah, it’s Jack, that’s what 
they call you right?” I said “yes sir.” He said “they were wrong 
and I’ve punished them.” He said but they got a taste of what 
y’all do,” he said “but we’re never gonna make the deadline 
unless you help us.” He says “I can order you to do it but I 
would rather ask you to do it. And…anything you need, you just 
tell me and we’ll get the crew and we’ll go down and finish it 
up.” He said “I guarantee you this, if you come down they will 
be there and they will help.” We come down there and they were 
just like little bees [laughing] they just wanted to help so 
much— 
 
SIMS [00:37:23]: Right.  
 
PREVATT: We got it all done. Now that showed me, this guy was a 
retired…general, down there at the time. 
 
SIMS: Now who is this? 
 
PREVATT [00:37:35]: His name was…I can’t lie, I can’t remember 
his name. But anyway, he was a project manager. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: He’s the kind of guy that I still have at home…his, his 
first name was Jim. And he wrote me a note one time that said…”I 
seen the video on your role playing and it showing you got 
shot,” I was the mayor of the town he said “and you got shot” 
and he said “totally believable.” He said “outstanding” and all 
this stuff and he signed it, a hand-written note. And I kept 
that for all these years, still have it. And Bill David, the one 
I worked for for twelve, thirteen years out there at Cubic he 
used to write me handwritten notes.  
 
SIMS [00:38:36]: I’ve seen some that he’s written for other 
people-- 
 
PREVATT: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: And they will frame it and it’s the…I forget, what is it 
called…a P.I.M. {Performance Information Memorandum} or 
something? 
 
PREVATT [00:38:43]: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PREVATT: Yeah. 
 
SIMS [00:38:45]: So it seems like it’s a, you know, of course it 
means a lot to people— 
 
PREVATT: It means a lot. And of course he writes ‘em himself…And 
he signs ‘em, he never signs ‘em David, he signs ‘em Bill. And 
I…all appointed mentors, Bill is a special, special, special 
person to me. But anyway, let me get back to…this other guy. We 
went down there and we got it on time, we got everything done, 
and gradually…I told him, I said  “look, we, we need to do 
something here.” And I said “we gotta do something boss.” I said 
“we got South Fort and you got North Fort. I, I realize that 
most of the people up here at North Fort are unskilled labor.” 
Said “I understand all that.” I said “well what you need to 
understand is these unskilled laborers in the one that have 
direct communication with the client, the Army. They’re the ones 
that meet where the rubber meets the road, them two. Them 
writers and all this stuff back here sitting in the air 
conditioned offices, they can write whatever they want.  
 
SIMS [00:40:02]: The script writers? 
 
PREVATT: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: And they can write whatever they want us to say. But, 
we can’t sit there and say “now I want you to”—can’t do it—they 
have to take this and translate it into regular talk, regular 
conversation, regular communication. I said “now these are the 
guys that the army is gonna remember. They could give a shit 
less about this writer or this scenario developer or anything 
else, they could care less, they don’t see ‘em, they’re 
invisible, this is what they see. This is what they’re gonna 
talk about. 
 
SIMS [00:40:46]: Help me understand, so do the script writers 
ever go into the box to get like-- 
 
PREVATT: Every once in a while about once a year they take ‘em 
out there on a two or three hour little tour-- 
 
SIMS: Right.   
 
PREVATT: On a bus, and then they go back. 
 
SIMS: So who are, like who are these writers, are they…? 
 
PREVATT [00:41:05]: Most of them are retired military of some, 
of one fashion or another, and they’re hired based on their, 
what their occupational skill in the Army was, and they go in 
there and work these different jobs. They’re computer literate 
and they sit there and they break all this stuff down then well 
they put it in one task…conditioning standard and then they go 
through, they write operations order and then frag orders and 
that’s the way the whole rotation runs, it runs on frag 
orders…what fragmentary orders were they, you have a basic—we’re 
gonna go from here to Chicago, okay? And then the frag order 
will tell you where we’re gonna stop…in Montgomery, Alabama and 
do this…and then so and so. So, they…they’re the writers back 
there that come up with all this stuff and they have, they have 
what’s…I’m trying to think…a P.O.I., a Program of Instruction, 
and then you also have…am I talking to much? 
 
SIMS: No I’m just making, I, I always just want to check to make 
sure the—it’s recording right so— 
 
PREVATT: Okay. 
 
SIMS: Everything’s kinda, just don’t mind me doing that, I’m 
just afraid like if the battery runs out— 
 
PREVATT [00:42:33]: [Laughing] Okay.  
 
SIMS: So the P.Y…something? 
 
PREVATT: Yeah, it’s a P.O.I., Program of Instruction. Right so 
when we get that down there and then we have L.O.I. which is 
Letter of Instruction military jargon, they bring this stuff out 
and anyway it tells us what we have to do and to what standard 
we have to do it. When we get it there and it says, it also 
breaks it down into rules and regulations and things. But 
basically when it goes into role play it’s got a little 
paragraph about that long is all that’s covering on us the 
writers write is and so, they try to put as much glory on them 
as they can. 
 
SIMS: The writers? 
 
PREVATT: Yes they do. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. So what would like a paragraph say? 
 
PREVATT [00:43:33]: The paragraph would say, and that’s what I 
was getting to, is...the goal of role players will be to one—
establish six villages, each village will have homes, municipal 
center, a store, blah blah blah. And you go down and it says 
“you’ll have gardens, you’ll actually have to eat the food out 
of the gardens and prepare it to eat” and it says “all the 
villages will have the sight and smell of an active village.” We 
used to take spices and put them in the stove in a pot in water 
and boil ‘em. Nothing in it just spices and we’d have a fan 
blowing to blow that stuff out toward the road so army driving 
by could smell that and they “man, they cooking something good 
in there” it wasn’t nothing. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
PREVATT [00:44:33]: But had, we accomplished that goal. And then 
I said “well, instead of doing this crap, why don’t we actually 
cook out there? Everybody bring something and instead of 
bringing your sandwich for lunch bring a can of beans and we’ll 
mix this stuff up and make a mulligan stew, cook chicken and 
dumplings, we’ve got a bunch of countrywoman here who know how 
to cook, I said “just let ‘em go.” But we gotta have a stove. 
D.R.M.O. comes in. We’ll get a stove and bring it out here. And 
then we need a…sink. Okay, I know how to plumb so we can get a 
sink there. But now the waste water gotta go somewhere so hey I 
go digging me a pit out here and have a leach field, where it 
catch the water there and I, I’m…preventative medicine won’t be 
on my butt…And we just, we just went through and then we came up 
with a real village. ‘Cause my goal is to accomplish everything 
in that little paragraph. We gotta dress the part, we gotta act 
the part— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: and smell the part, and everything else.  
 
SIMS: But it sounds like I’m like they can write the paragraph 
but in order to have any of that stuff you’ve gotta do all this 
behind the scenes work— 
 
PREVATT: Right. 
 
SIMS: Which is not just…then you’ve gotta figure out how to 
actually get it done, right? 
 
PREVATT: Correct. 
 
SIMS: That’s the art of it, you know— 
 
PREVATT [00:46:00]: The art is though is figuring out how to get 
it done— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: When you’ve got no budget. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
PREVATT: There’s no money in there to accomplish this little 
bitty paragraph. Now there’s-- 
 
SIMS: But the writers, do the writers ever get a sense of like- 
 
PREVATT: Every once in a while you get one who gets it. But 
[clears throat] you know what it’s like…it, it would be like…an 
aristocrat in a town coming through and throwing pennies out to 
the poor. That’s the way the writers treated us. They had 
absolutely no respect for us. Unskilled laborers--college 
graduates. “I’ve been in the army, you haven’t”—“woah slick, I 
have.” He says “well I’ve got a degree.” “Me too. Well what else 
is new, that degree isn’t a dime I can get a cup of coffee, you 
know?” I have learned everything that I know…from people, from 
foreign countries, from all this stuff. I know what it’s like to 
not have nothing. I’ve actually been in these towns where they 
live in huts. I have all this experience. I said “I got that. 
That doesn’t make me any better than anybody else, that just 
makes me more informed so I can make better decisions and tell 
you what to do. If I asked you to go over and paint this 
building purple instead of the red brick that you normally see 
in a town,” I said, “there’s a reason for that.” Hey, they 
happen the ship came in and they had fifty gallons of purple 
paint, I’m gone get them to paint my house, I gotta protect it 
and put some paint on it, it’s all I got, it’s all I got. 
So…necessity is what makes the world go round. If you’ve got a 
necessity you’re gonna figure out a way to achieve that 
necessity… 
 
SIMS [00:48:25]: So do you, it sounds like…who…I know this isn’t 
quite the right word but like who owns the villages? Did you 
feel like they kind of belonged to you all since you had done 
like, that work? 
 
PREVATT [00:48:41]: Yeah. After…a while and I knew all the 
people around Fort Polk that could come in…the villages 
themselves are owned by the army, they’re owned by Fort Polk. 
Anything that we put in that village could not be guarded. The 
M.P.s said they could not go around, run a patrol and guard ‘em. 
So if you stick something there they were probably at the time, 
eight or ten different ways people could come in on Fort Polk, 
into one of them houses, and steal a hot water heater you just 
put in. And it had to be, had to be— 
 
SIMS [00:49:24]: So stuff, stuff like that happened? 
 
PREVATT [00:49:27]: Oh yeah, they, they’d come in and cut the 
wall out and steal a whole well system, just cut it all off at 
the ground and go. You know, a twenty thousand dollar system…I 
worked with the head engineer for Fort Polk and…everything that 
we done out there…anything we could possibly bring in we brought 
in. If we couldn’t bring it in we tried to camouflage it so 
people wouldn’t steal it.  
 
SIMS: In between rotations?  
 
PREVATT: In between rotations.  
 
SIMS: So, did anyone ever, like, did you catch people stealing 
stuff? 
 
PREVATT [00:50:07]: Oh yeah, catch ‘em but they wouldn’t do 
nothing. Army wouldn’t do nothing. C.I.D. (criminal 
investigation department) said that the value…of the damage or 
the property they took had to exceed five thousand dollars or 
they would not prosecute it. So…we got junk from D.R.M.O., to us 
it’s valuable because you know we’ve got a clinic that has real 
tables in it, it’s full of supplies that we get from extended 
[cough] a, a guy—Steve Humphries—now he was our medical man, I 
mean, he lives, breathes, thinks medicine. Now he had a bunch of 
shoe-ins, just like I did—at the hospital. They got outdated 
medicines. Some of them they could throw in the garbage so he’d 
go down and pick them up—narcotics, stuff like that you couldn’t 
get. But aspirins, things like that, they could down play them, 
declassify them, he could pick that up. And he could get 
hundreds of props—outdated bandages, I didn’t-you know water had 
an expiration on it so you can get bottle of water. IVs in the 
bag then in the bottle— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [00:51:29]: And we had these hospitals and, and clinics 
all set up with all this stuff and we’d done it all by 
ourselves. Ain’t nobody help us do a damn thing. We done it 
because we wanted to, because I and T.D., we…assign people to 
the point where they had ownership of a building. They thought 
they owned the building. We had everybody bring in canned goods 
and tell everybody open it up from the bottom, put ‘em on the 
shelves, look like the store is just chock plumb full of stuff. 
And we had some spoons and stuff like that. An example of how 
real the stores looked, Madeleine Albright came and she got her 
little short butt out of the Humvee, walked in there in the 
store and started looking at all this stuff and she said “you 
know we, down my this house, and, and this stuff—” and she was 
carrying on as store keeper. And the store keeper was also a 
little genius—she made her own soap out of oatmeal and different 
things and she made lite—she had all this stuff on display in 
there. And she would bring it in, she was gonna give it away 
basically because we sold it to soldiers for play money. They 
would have to have the play money and we would sell them the 
product. We made the money, we made the soap, so it made no 
difference to us. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: And we could actually have a little growing concern 
there. Then we figured out you could take fake fruit and stack 
it up and put three of four fresh pieces of fruit on top and, 
and you could walk and go pick you and start eating an orange 
and it’s on film and they think you’ve got a whole tray full of 
oranges. 
 
SIMS: Right, right. 
 
PREVATT: I mean it was, it was just little things that everybody 
added to it. It was not just me, it was…everybody had a value 
that they placed on there. Of course we had our shit birds too 
but, we gradually, we weeded them out and… 
 
SIMS [00:53:41]: So how did, how did a…how did that work because 
it seems like it requires everybody to--for it not to be just a 
job you show up for and you don’t care about—like you have to be 
invested in it and get people…excited you know, to spend their 
own money, maybe it’s not a whole lot but you know, it’s like 
they have, they— 
 
PREVATT: Wha— 
 
SIMS: Like other people have told me they would like go and buy 
stuff— 
 
PREVATT: Yeah, just-- 
 
SIMS: they’d decorate their house 
 
PREVATT [00:54:12]: Personal pride, personal pride is what they 
were doing in this, in this particular shop. They would bring 
their own stuff in, that’s correct. And later on as the contract 
grew…I could buy ‘em whatever they wanted. If they needed yarn 
to knit with…if they needed this or paints or sticks or jellies 
or pipe cleaners—I can order all that stuff through an 
independent contractor who was a purchasing agent for us and I 
can have him go anywhere and get anything. I’ve had him go 
get…tea sets with ten cups in it instead of eight. And he would 
go find these for me—he lives here in Leesville but he was a, he 
was bonded…he had a credit card good for a million dollars and 
I’d tell him what I want and he’d go get it, couple of days it’d 
be there. And anything I needed to make this village look more 
life-like. 
 
SIMS [00:55:14]: So it wasn’t like it had to go up some 
complicated chain of command, you’d just have the— 
 
PREVATT: Well there was-- 
 
SIMS: Discretion, discretion to get stuff like that?  
 
PREVATT: Right. I, there was, I had discretion but I had to go 
to the C.O.R., the Contracting Office Representative but I 
didn’t go there direct. I didn’t have to. I’d go to my supply 
guy and tell him “I want this.” Now we had…our money and we had 
the army’s money. If we were gonna use the army’s money we had 
to go to C.O.R. If we were gonna use our money we didn’t have to 
go to nobody. Go straight to our corporate back down. And it was 
a very limited budget but on the army budget of course it was a 
lot bigger. As the…the contract grew over the years from B.D.M. 
to T.R.W. to Cubic the contract period became longer and it, the 
investment the company was willing to make into it become--we’re 
the cash cow for ‘em, period--it just doesn’t matter. What I 
mean by that is I was called “the village coordinator,” was 
another title I had when we first started off. I would go and 
anything they wanted in the village everybody would turn it into 
me. I would look at it. Some of the stuff I could get the army 
to do, some of it we were gonna do self-help. But some of it, it 
would take materials that cost money so I’d try to get them 
first through the army and if I couldn’t, whatever was left 
over, get us to buy. Or go to D.R.M.O. and get it…and if 
necessary steal it. [laughing] I tell ya, let me add one thing 
in here to show you how realism goes in the—our, our 
headquarters was up on North Fort and the speed limit, the 
bastards put up there was ten miles an hour. And, you ever try 
drive ten miles an hour? You can’t. Especially if you’re trying 
to get to work and all these guys are trying to park and all 
this stuff and the M.P.s were having a hay day. Writing tickets 
left and right. So one day I got fed up with this crap and I 
said, I said “well, you know what they say, if you can’t get ‘em 
to do it, do it yourself.” So I figured out what size wrench is 
it to take that sign off. 
 
SIMS: The speed limit sign? 
 
PREVATT [00:58:03]: Yep. And we took ‘em off and we took them 
down three or four streets down. Says thirty-five miles an hour. 
And we took that speed limit sign off and put a ten mile an hour 
speed limit there, brought it back up there and the radios were 
talking to each other in case the M.P.s come and we put it up 
there and we did three different signs on our street, about a 
mile long—thirty-five miles an hour—and I talked to an M.P. a 
couple of days later. He said “I see the speed limit up here—” I 
said “man we’ve been complaining about it, we talked to the 
Provost Marshal and somebody somewhere talked to 
maintenance…road maintenance on Fort Polk and they come out here 
and change the speed limit.” He said “well I’m glad they did 
that. I was getting sick and tired of writing tickets.” And 
nobody ever knew the difference. It’s still that way, today 
[laughing] and we just went and changed it ourselves. 
 
SIMS: Right. What’s the speed limit…in the box? 
 
PREVATT: Twenty-five miles an hour, day or night. And the let me 
tell you if you going twenty-five miles an hour, it’s 
ridiculous. And the only one that follows that speed limit is 
us. Army don’t pay no attention to it, they drive a hundred 
miles an hour if they want to but they’re supposed to. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [00:59:28]: They don’t…Another thing, we needed a, a 
radio antenna to go up high, you know, so we could talk to 
everybody around the box. So I talked to…a guy at communications 
down at South Fort and I said “how high does this antenna base 
have to be, with the antenna on top?” well, he said “at least 
thirty feet high.” “Okay.” I went to Peason Ridge twenty-five 
miles from here, an old abandoned site. 
 
SIMS: So Tigerland was— 
 
PREVATT: Tigerland, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PREVATT [01:00:10]: And so we went up there, about four or five 
of us on a day like today, just as hot as it can be, and we took 
this antenna down on an old base that used to be there, we 
loaded it up on trailers, brought it back, reassembled it there 
at Fort Polk, put it up, got the army to go out there, a civil 
service contractor for the army come out, hook all the stuff for 
us, put all the stuff—“Yeah” I said, “the army gave us this 
stuff here and fixed us up and now we got the, we don’t know how 
to wire this thing up.” Well they…a couple days later had us an 
antenna. It just whate--…[laughing]you know…I’m talkin’ about-- 
 
SIMS: Getting things, getting things done 
 
PREVATT [01:00:10]: Really stealing, I mean we did that but to 
make it work. We had so many people—now this is, this is the 
part…I don’t know if you’ve, you’ve scheduled Buck Haley, right? 
Have you got a hold of him yet?  
 
SIMS: Oh, we’ve been talking, yeah. But I haven’t interviewed 
him yet. 
 
PREVATT [01:01:14]: Okay. Now Buck…was, he was there for Cubic 
that’s all, but he’s a dentist 
 
SIMS: Right 
 
PREVATT: he’s a-- 
 
SIMS: Pediatric dentist. 
 
PREVATT: Awww yes he is and the finest human being in this 
world. And for some reason, the sucker just likes plain old me 
and we’ve been friends for years. And he’s one of them guys when 
it comes to work in the morning, seventy years old, just as 
energetic as he can be, and happy and glad just to be doing 
something. That’s the way with--the older the role player, the 
more appreciative they are of the job. Because they’re generally 
retired from somewhere else. SO they got an income coming in and 
whether it be social security or whether it be military 
retirement or [rustling]--sorry—whatever it happens to be—there 
it is—they, they’ve got it. And they just want to get out of the 
house and, and do the right thing, and do what you tell ‘em and 
believe me, those people mind, they’ll do what you tell ‘em. 
They know what yes and no means. But, they also…the most 
valuable asset that Fort Polk has as far as the role play goes, 
‘cause they bring a world of experience in. I used to go “look, 
nurses, doctors, lawyers, funeral directors,” I had them all, 
and I would look for these people.  
 
SIMS: So you would do the hiring, too? 
 
Prevatt [01:03:18]: I did, me and T.D. together done the hiring. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:03:23]: I would bring it to him and he would approve 
it, yes or no. When, then it got to the point where he, there 
was so much of it he said “look, you, you have the authority to 
hire and fire.” You know, recommend firing. You couldn’t, we 
could hire, but to fire took project management. All you could 
do was recommend and write ‘em up. But…when people come in 
asking do you know any of these, do you know this—” you’d be 
surprised how many people know, people looking for a job. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:04:03]: And, you bring ‘em in. And sometimes they’re 
good, sometimes they’re bad. I had…you, you have to play so many 
roles—it’s just like in the army—you’ve gotta be the momma, the 
daddy, the brother, the sister, the in-laws, and everything—you 
have to play that role for these people in real life. They think 
you can solve all of their problems. [laughing] Sometimes you 
don’t wanna hear her silly ass shit 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:04:39]: But you can’t say that, you got to really be 
open to it. And, I had this preacher one time—Pentecostal 
preacher—needed a job so so so bad. Now I told him I said “look 
here preacher” I said, “now I can put you to work”…I said “but 
you can’t be preaching out in the box” that’s, that’s where 
villages are at. I said, “you can’t do it. You’re gonna have to 
hold it in.” I said, “because these are Greek Orthodox what 
we’re playing this time.” I said, “they’re not Pentecostal.” 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:05:18]: [laughing] “I hope you understand that.” And 
he, “yeah, I understand it.” So he went out there and I said 
“now there’s gone people use profanity you can’t, in the army 
when they come in here they might tell you to “get your 
motherfucking ass down” and you better get down. [laughing]  
There not a whole, you can’t come in there and tell them not to 
use bad language. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:05:41]: I said “so…you’re not gonna be in your 
element. This not gonna be your normal Sunday school class.” So 
he went out there and, he done pretty good. After his second 
rotation he come in there and he “I need to talk to you.” I said 
“about what?” He said “I’m gonna have to quit.” I said 
“something somebody said or something like that?” He said “No…I 
been staying out here, Dry Creek Church place camp and the 
different churches ringing at different times to have summer 
camp, stuff like that. And I said “okay.” And I said “what’s the 
problem?” And well, “my wife come in and caught me in bed with 
the director of this place.” Shit. Let me tattoo a little cross 
on my ear so I can-- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:06:52]: Listen to what you got to say. So he started 
giving me all this confessions and crying and stuff, I said 
“look here preacher, all I wanna know is why you wanna quit. If 
you wanna quit for personal reasons that’s all you gotta say. 
And…no problem, I’ll draw a line through your name and you’re 
gone.” I said “that quick.” I said “but…I’m not the guy for you 
to be confessing your sins to” [laughing] “I’m telling you, I’m 
not a priest.” 
 
SIMS: [laughing] right. 
 
PREVATT [01:07:27]: “You need to go find somebody else.” I said, 
“all I wanna know and I will never repeat this, you know…” he’s 
dead now so I don’t care. So, “I said, just go away. Just, just 
go on down and try to reconcile your wife or do something.” And, 
I never will forget because a friend of mine who’s also dead, 
all my friends are dead, but…so she called me up and she said 
“Awww this preacher, new preacher in town he’s such a good man, 
he just really, really, really needs a hand-up” and yak-yak-yak-
yak. “The, the preaching salary doesn’t pay much and he needed a 
little extra money, him and his wife are trying to have a kid 
and…” “Okay Cindy, I got it. What’s his name?” I put him up 
there and [laughing] about three months later this suckers in 
bed with another woman and, and he’s a Pentecostal preacher. He 
knows it’s a shock…I’ve had ‘em…I’ve had ‘em come in where so 
many people in the village says this guy stinks, take a bath, 
and you get down to the root of the problem— 
 
SIMS: Like he…like s— 
 
PREVATT: Body o- 
 
SIMS: Smells. Yeah. 
 
PREVATT: Yeah. And, and I said— 
 
SIMS: The stuff you never think you’d have to deal with.  
 
PREVATT: I’d never have to get to that.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: So, I went down and got a bar of soap and a towel and a 
toothbrush and a comb and some deodorant and put it in a package 
and gave it to this guy. And he says “I live in a trailer, has 
no electricity. He said “I’m down and out. I don’t have any 
water or anything else to take a bath?” I said “take a bath in 
the creek.” And I told him I said “look here,” I said “now you 
usually come to work at six o’clock in the morning, right?” 
“Yeah.” I said “if you come here at four o’clock in the morning 
we’ve got hot showers back there and there’s nobody else here 
but just a few people you go in there and take you a hot shower 
get cleaned up, you can shave.” I bought him a new pair of 
jeans, new shirt, new underwear—all out of my pocket—and I gave 
him the stuff I said “get all cleaned up smelling spiffy.” 
‘Cause there’s no other way to put this but I said “you stink.” 
I said “now your body odor is, you smell like old crap and puke 
and everything else.” [laughing] I said, “we gotta get you 
cleaned up.” So got him clean, look spiffy and he stayed that 
way for a while and I told him, I said “you have my permission, 
anytime this building’s open—now, building’s closed ain’t 
nothing you can do about it, it’s locked up.” I said “but 
anytime building’s open come in here and take a shower. You can 
do that, please” [laughing] “for the benefit of me and everybody 
else.” 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:10:35]: But again, with role play there and role 
play’s mission to the army—in order for the army to get the full 
value out of this is—a lot of these guys are young and 
everything and they have never engaged civilians. And they call 
it “C.O.B.,” Civilians on the Battlefield. Never. So we have to 
put ‘em in every kind of situation and that’s what the writers 
do, they give us things to do. And then you’ve got the O.C.s, 
the Observer Controllers, they take the COG guidance and the 
writer’s scenarios and the role players and they put all this 
stuff together in a little ball. Then they decide how far to go 
left how far to go right, whatever to do they’re there. They’re 
kind of like your little director on a movie set— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:11:38]: Sitting over here. And you kind of look at 
him and wait for him to say “yes” or “no” or “down” or “under” 
and…you’d be surprised at how…realistic can get-it can be.  
 
SIMS: What were—you said…you know, obviously not everyone’s 
gonna do a great job, like what were some of the reasons that 
you recommend people be let go? Like how… 
 
PREVATT [01:12:15]: Getting out of character was one. If you’re 
playing a, a carpenter in a village. And you get out there and 
you get a G.I. come in there and y’all sit there talking and 
he’s from Baltimore and you’re from Baltimore, that, that’s a no 
no. You’re from Cortina and that’s, that’s all you can say. 
 
SIMS: And it’s who’s, who’s…su—O.C.s noticing that kind of thing 
or…group leader? 
 
PREVATT [01:12:49]: O.C.s or people or anybody else. Another 
role player see somebody do it can come tell you about it, you 
go over there and you warn ‘em about it. And then if it 
continues to do it of course they’ve gotta go. ‘Cause if they 
get out of character the whole village gets out of character. 
So, that’s some of the things. Harming another role player…did 
you interview Tommy? Tommy and I have been friends for years and 
years and years. But I had to let him go…best friend, you know. 
My job. And, he had a role player sleep and he kicked her. And I 
said “man you can do anything but kick.” And left a bruise on 
her leg, scratched the skin, and she came in and filed a medical 
report. 
 
SIMS: So he was like a group leader? 
 
PREVATT [01:13:55]: Yeah. He was a group leader. So it goes all 
the way to corporate, anytime you have a medical thing. So you 
know, “hey man, you, you just sealed your own coffin.” What can 
I do about that? Not a damn thing because in her statement she 
said she was asleep, she wasn’t supposed to be asleep and he 
said something to her and trying to wake her up. And she 
wouldn’t get up, so he kicked her. And it’s dark and he kicked 
her too hard and not only once but twice. And, so…immediately 
here comes the program manager, assistant program manager, my 
boss, all of us having this conference. Say “what are we gonna 
do here this is gonna be…it’s gonna hit the bricks, you know.” 
So…I said, they said “well we’ve gotta fire him.” I said “he, 
he, he needs the money in the worst way right now, can’t fire 
him. Ain’t there something else we can do?” And, so I made a 
deal with my boss. I said “look, let’s give him thirty days off, 
off the schedule. And then we’ll reduce him down from full-time 
to part-time. And he can’t be a, a leader until he proves 
himself again. Everybody agreed to that and I called him in to 
do it [laughing] by the time his wife come busting into my 
office. And I had begged my boss, please don’t ever hire two 
married role players, don’t do that to me. That’s, that’s an 
impossible situation, it’s a lose-lose I don’t give a damn what 
we do. And then you open up a door if you hire one married 
couple— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:16:07]: And then it just goes on, snowballs. But…I 
told him no, I wouldn’t hire his wife. But then he talked to 
Bill he said “Bill, son, I can,” said “we can hire my wife.” And 
Bill came I said “Bill man, what did you do? What did you do to 
me?” [laughing] He said, he said “I was doing something else and 
he want to know if his wife can be hired out there and I didn’t 
think and I said yes.” I said “you, you just sealed it man.” I 
said “you don’t have to manage these bastards like I do.” I said 
“no matter where she’s at, he’s a shift leader, and no matter 
what village she’s in he’s circles around all the villages so 
he’s gonna run into contact where he’s gonna be super biased his 
wife.” I said “you realize what that means?” I said “how’d you 
like to have your wife up here, you telling her what to do?” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS: [laughing] Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:17:13]: That’s a no good. But anyway, she come 
busting into my office and she started screaming about how “he 
didn’t do it” now she said “you’re doing all this stuff and 
you’re against him and all this stuff.” And she and I were best 
friends too. And she just ranting and raving and cussing. I said 
“number one,” I just kept my calm, I said “number one, if you 
want to talk to me” I said “you go see my secretary, you make an 
appointment. Come in, see me, we’ll sit down and talk.” I said 
“other than that, get your ass out of my damn office. I’m busy 
right now.” And said “When you got time” and “he didn’t do this 
and this stuff like that.” And said “Okay, time-out, you shut up 
just for a minute. Tommy, did you do this? ‘Yes’ Tommy, did you 
kick her twice? ‘Yes.’ Tommy, is, what this lady said true? 
‘Yes.’” I looked at his wife I said “you got anymore damn 
questions? Get out.” [laughing] But that’s one of the things you 
pace you know out there with you. But Tommy’s still a great guy. 
I mean he’s, I’d hire him in a minute, right now. I would if I 
was still working out there…When Cubic took over the contract 
this contract…that was the, one of the we’ve been talking about 
the early days when it got started. We went through B.D.M., and 
then T.R.W. and then Cubic. Everybody who gets this contract 
that I’ve noticed through--I’ve worked for all three of them is-
-they bid on it on a shoestring budget. And then the way the 
contract’s written is after the first year you can go in and ask 
for additional funds for unanticipated… … 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:19:32]: Expenses. You can get an upgrade on that. 
You can also get an upgrade in there through the army on 
employee efficiency, employee dedication, things like this, in 
order to get pay raises to people. You can get that but you have 
to suffer through that first year first. And…unfortunately 
ninety percent of all those extra expenses and stuff goes to the 
people at South Fort, the writers and all those other stuff. And 
a little teeny percent comes down our way and…I’m— 
 
SIMS: Are the writers and stuff part of the contract or--? 
 
PREVATT: Yes, they are. 
 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
PREVATT [01:20:20]: You’ve got the writers, you’ve got the 
scenario developers, you’ve got the people who coordinate the 
stuff at the TAFFs and you got…the role players who make it come 
together on the battlefield. Those are the people you got…It’s, 
like a great big Hollywood movie set. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: Have you got a copy of the Cubic tape? Or the disk that 
shows what Cubic does? 
 
SIMS: No, like a PowerPoint thing?  
 
PREVATT: It’s a regular disk, you just put it on. 
 
SIMS: C.D. No, I don’t think I’ve seen that.  
 
PREVATT [01:21:02]: I think I got two or three of them at the 
house it’s, it’s nothing classified on it, but what it does it 
starts off, its narrated by Bill David and you go through this 
stuff and it would be for you only and you could go through and 
you could look and it shows you how everything is directed. The 
people who work here as the actors, people who work here as the 
directors, people who work here as the producers, people work 
here and, and it kind of develops the whole thing into a movie 
studio and you get to see all of the working parts. 
 
SIMS: Who’s the video for? 
 
LANG : It’s what we use to brief civilians and-- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
LANG : stuff with. And anybody wants to come in or family 
members or the whole works. Nothing classified in it whatsoever. 
But it’s, it’s one of those things…it’s, it’s, it’s a working 
tool where you can actually see it.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
LANG [01:22:10]: When I retired—when I say retired I mean quit 
because there was no retirement involved in it but—I’d worked 
for…the contractors I should say, for nineteen years. And…some 
of that time was interrupted by trips overseas working with 
Brown & Root in foreign countries. That’s another thing helps 
out, I actually got to see by working on LOGCAP (U.S. Army 
Logistics Civil Augmentation Program) missions I could be in a 
village, putting up five hundred tents for the Army guys, the 
Army guys be running patrols downtown, talking with civilians. 
And they would do that stuff. And when they come back in the 
evening time they would tell me about the stuff and I’d say 
“yeah, I trained you to come over here.” I met a lot of guys 
that I had actually worked with here at Fort Polk, actually 
doing the job, “but you know what y’all told us is right, man” 
he said “all this stuff” and you, you get to see the second part 
of it. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:23:25]: As a matter a fact that second part was so 
good that I’d get a call from…the head engineer from Fort Polk. 
He wants to come to Bosnia. And he wants to come over on a fact 
finding trip on there, on how the gates are built, where they go 
in and out, where they got to patch a lane a walk-through gate—
he wants to look at all these gates and stuff like that so they 
can reproduce ‘em, bring ‘em back here to Fort Polk, ‘cause they 
had a Bosnia rotation coming up. And so I was there and I talked 
to my, project manager, and I said “look, this guy’s coming—" 
and where we want to go and what he wants to do and this and 
this and this. And he says “I’d like to, he’s gonna be, I’d like 
to be able to get him a driver and a car and something to take 
him around, show him all the stuff.” And he said “well you know 
him, why don’t you use your truck and take him around wherever 
he needs to go” he says “we’ll cover for you while you’re doing 
that.” “Okay.” So I did that. His name’s C.J. McCann, the 
retired head engineer for Fort Polk. In other words, any time I 
needed money to do something to a village I went to see C.J. If 
he could get me the materials he would bring the materials out 
there on trucks and then my role players would build it. So 
it’s, I wash, I made his villages look good— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:25:12]: And it, and, and he made us look good. So no 
matter what, one of them washes the other’s stuff. Anything I 
did I went to him for. Him and I became just as tights as two 
twin brothers. We got, we worked together on everything and he 
retired then I retired and we still get together about once 
every three or four months and we all, all of us retired people 
get together and have a big ‘I’m so good and I’m so lazy and I’m 
so tired’ meeting. And— 
 
SIMS: Where do you all meet, like at restaurants? 
 
PREVATT: At a restaurant. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PREAVATT [01:25:55]: Right down the street here, Bubba Q’s or 
somewhere out there.  
 
SIMS: Oh, I was…yeah, thinking about going there for lunch 
actually. 
 
PREVATT: Yeah— 
 
SIMS: Is it good? 
 
PREVATT: Right down there on the left.  
 
SIMS: So is, sit down? Like, or— 
 
PREVATT: Huh? Yeah. 
 
SIMS: You just order— 
 
PREVATT [01:25:10]:  Sit down at a big table. We usually bring 
our wives and, and everybody we all sit together, we all—but the 
only people that come are the retired people and all of us were 
in leadership positions and we get a chance just to unwind, you 
know? You know, from taking care of so many people to just 
taking care of yourself. So you know, you-- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:26:38]: You find a whole bunch of void in your day 
and it’s—it takes two things [laughing] I’m gonna tell you this 
and then I’ll get back to the story—you, you retire and you got 
all this time and then you…when you’s working you got all this 
stuff done. And then pretty soon it goes to the point where ‘how 
in the hell did I get all this stuff done and work?’ And then 
you find out there’s not enough time in the day to do it. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:27:17]: Well it’s the same way in the village. You 
lay the village on, you’ve got usually anywhere between sixteen 
and twenty-one days that you’re actually out there. Between 
what’s mandatory—we have to do, we have to have the village shut 
down, we have to…when we first started this thing it went from, 
from dawn to dusk. No night play whatsoever. We occupied the 
villages at night, just in case the army came by, with two or 
three people, token people. But at night everything shut down. 
They just did not work I mean, didn’t have the money. So…yeah. 
 
SIMS: It sounds, are there other, other like any funny or 
interesting like stories that stand out in terms of like, what 
happened in the villages? 
 
PREVATT [01:28:20]: Oh, a million of them but one…we were doing 
what was called ‘Partnership for Peace.’ We’d done three of 
them. I don’t know if you’re familiar with what that is. 
 
SIMS: This was a former Soviet bloc countries’ military would 
come over? 
 
PREVATT [01:28:38]: Ye—yes.  
 
SIMS: And train with the rotational unit? 
 
PREVATT [01:28:40]: Yeah twenty-six of ‘em, twenty-six different 
countries. But they would come over and one of ‘em was, these 
guys are real. I mean they’re really from that country. And we 
had a guy named Danny that was a mechanic. But when we done 
Partnership for Peace everybody, regardless of your job, we all 
had to come in and go out and roleplay somewhere. I don’t care 
if you was a writer or whatever, you had to come do it. Because 
this stuff here was being written by a department of the Army. 
You know it’s— 
 
SIMS: Like it’s a bigger deal. 
 
PREVATT [01:29:21]: Oh yeah, a lot bigger than Fort Polk. So all 
these prima donnas they had to go out there and do what we told 
‘em. They didn’t like it…a bit. But anyway, we were…had a little 
small village and across the street was another village, across 
the creek was another one so…I can’t remember which one for 
sure, which country it was, but one of the Soviet bloc countries 
came up and told this guy, they said “put your hands up” and the 
interpreter told him “you’ve gotta put your hands up.” So he put 
his hands up. He said “we’re gonna search you.” “Okay.” Started 
searching him, felt around him like that, says the guy just 
reached over him and unbuckled his belt. [laughing] the Soviet 
guy unbuttoned our role player’s belt. And what he done, he had 
stuff in his pockets and his pants just fell straight down, all 
this stuff being videoed, and this sucker was buck ass naked. 
[laughing] and he tried to get his pants back up and the, the 
other guys tryin’ hold his gun on him, and they got the language 
barrier there and I thought we was gonna have World War Three 
right there. But that was cute. We had…trying to get the 
seriousness of what we were doing to other nations. He told him 
to stop, and stop and shot him. They had these plastic bullets 
and shot him twice and the, they, they one of them just made a 
big bruise and penetrated his skin just a little bit. The other 
one went all the way through and almost hid his heart. Just 
about killed the guy. But this, this guy here had his bullets. 
He thought plastic bullets just bounce off.  
 
SIMS: Is this a Partnership for Peace guy? 
 
PREVATT: Yep. 
 
SIMS: Who had, they didn’t have the regular M.I.L.E.S. or I mean 
like the— 
 
PREVATT [01:31:35]: No, they didn’t have the, they weren’t using 
M.I.L.E.S.  at the time. 
 
SIMS: Right, they just brought their own. 
 
PREVATT [01:31:40]: It was a, basically free, but a—another 
thing that happened there was I had a, a night mission. Now I 
was, I was working so many hours. I worked construction 
remodeling role play in the morning from six to about eleven 
thirty at twelve o’clock I had to leave there, take a whole crew 
of people, and move out and run a shift form twelve midnight, 
from twelve lunchtime, twelve a.m., to twelve p.m. by the box. 
And then I had to, couldn’t leave there at twelve o’clock, I’d 
come back in, twenty-five miles an hour and by the time I 
dropped them off and got home it’s like two o’clock in the 
morning, gotta be back to work at six, and this thing last two 
weeks. And so I was dragging. But anyway…had a…two women, a real 
young girl named Sarah Mayo, she’s a registered nurse now, put 
herself through school, and another girl named…Bonnie Herring. 
And she was a licensed practical nurse so we were out there and 
we had, just the three of us, and the script was there would be 
a Soviet bloc country coming across this big open field, in the 
middle of the night, on a night patrol. Now you think on a night 
patrol they got you sneaky pete stuff, not these guys. They got 
flashlights and they got beacons and all this other stuff coming 
across the field. [laughing] And our scenario called for me, for 
the one lady to be screaming “don’t hurt my mother,” young 
Sarah, and I was supposed to be bad at her because she allowed a 
man in the village into her house. Didn’t do nothing just 
allowed him in—and I was beating her with a stick. Had her 
moulauged up so as soon as soon as we got there I popped a bag 
on the back of her neck, blood started running down her neck, 
and I’m beating the hell out of her with a stick. The stick is 
broken and I’m holding it in my hand like this. When I hit it, 
the stick, I just let go of it and it just flies off and looks 
like I really just bashed the hell out of her and her daughter’s 
screaming and all this stuff. Right in the middle of pitch-ass-
black, all the Soviet guys they can’t understand English, I 
can’t understand Slovakian. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
PREVATT: So we’re out there and so immediately what happens is 
the people leading the throw-all jump me, and start beating the 
hell out of me. I mean I had a dislocated shoulder, they bruised 
me, I got some stitches. So it was really real to them. 
 
SIMS: Are there no Americans that are there? 
 
PREVATT [01:35:04]: Yeah they got an American there and they got 
an interpreter there but they only got one interpreter he might 
be on the other side of the platoon. By the time he gets there 
the damage is done. And there’re bull metals on the ground I got 
this stuff all over my arms and the ants is eating me and they 
got me tied down and can’t get up. And then all of a sudden, 
typical, the wife starts “don’t hurt my husband.” And she starts 
beating on them trying to get me free. [laughing] Then we 
waiting on this cop to come…and when he, when he…hears the shot 
a cops supposed to come out of the woods in his car and come 
running up there to us. Well the cop was asleep. And he didn’t 
come. So my beating continued. [laughing] Finally I said 
“somebody go over there and kick that sucker in his ass and wake 
him up. I’m dying over here. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Don’t kick him too hard. 
 
PREVATT: No, not too hard. Oh lord. But…the funny part of this 
is though, all of this is done and so we’re supposed to move 
back toward our house. And we start moving back toward our house 
and we to dug out place here where they had come and got some 
dirt out of there and moved someplace else then they’d hurried 
over with grass and a nice, neat little cubbyhole there and 
that’s where we kind of hid out. We’re down below the surface, 
they can’t see us anymore and it goes like that. And me and 
Sarah and Bonnie jump in this hole. We’re in this hole and 
everything starts getting quiet and then about twenty damn wild 
pigs come running in this hole with us. Then I got one woman 
goes this way, one woman goes this way, and me I just go 
straight up. [laughing] And a fiasco hit. “What’s wrong” I said 
“man,” I said “you ain’t gonna believe the pigs.” He said “you 
kept any?” I said “you out of your damn mind?” [laughing] 
 
SIMS: How big are the wild pigs? 
 
PREVATT: Oh there was a bunch of little shoats about this long 
but then a mom and daddy big ones. And they got tusked and all 
that stuff and we got out of the way quick. Then we ran straight 
toward, soon as we got out we ran straight toward the truck and 
got in the truck. By then the hogs as scared of us as we were of 
them. They went that way and we went this way. But…every night 
at dusk at our little camp there, there’d probably twenty coons 
come down there. And you see ‘em take a whole M.R.E. {Meals 
Ready-to-Eat} package up a tree and then go to tearing it apart 
and throw out the stuff they didn’t want and eat what they 
wanted. They had…this may, I don’t know if it hits on funny or 
not but… 
 
SIMS: Alright. 
 
PREVATT [01:38:22]: The fire markers and the role players always 
competing against each other. Fire markers is the ones who out 
the…bring the battle field to life out there with all the 
explosions and the fire and the missiles, even aircrafts, and 
all the stuff like that. So, and they’re all great friends. But 
there’s competition in there. And fire marker’s making a little 
more money an hour than a role player does. And had to have 
people saying “well this just ain’t right--they make more money 
than we do.” Well, let me tell you something sweet heart—sounds 
good, sounds glamorous—you got a fire marker watching a mine 
field in a remote area. The chances of a vehicle coming by there 
and hitting one of these mines is probably about the same as 
hitting the lottery. I said “but he’s sitting out there twenty-
four hours a day and his shift’s over after twelve hours and 
somebody else comes out there. Rain or shine, doesn’t matter he 
got a poncho on him and he sitting on top of this four wheeler 
out there in all kinds of weather—cold, hot, whatever it is, 
he’s got a lunch his wife packed him, he gets to eat it, he’s 
got nothing but a thermos of coffee—when it’s gone it’s gone.” I 
said “now y’all sitting in a town, got a coffee pot, when you’re 
out of coffee you make some more.” I said “if you cold you go 
outside and stoke up the fire and sitting by the fire you get 
warm. They can’t do this. Y’all can. That’s the difference 
between the two. It’s what the job entails. Plus, he’s messing 
with explosives. Granted, they’re pyrotechnics but you can blow 
a hand off or burn an ear or something else. And then when they 
call fire mission at night using nods he’s got two minutes to 
mark that fire within where it’s supposed to be. And he’s going 
across all terrain country, stuff like this, in the middle of 
the damn night to do it.” And I said “you think you as a 
grandmother can do that? You can’t do that. You can’t do it. It 
takes a young guy to do that stuff. So, you know “why is it that 
all you people always think that the grass is greener on the 
other side of the fence? It’s not. Everything has it’s pros and 
cons.” I said, “You need to weigh all that.” I said “You know 
like I had that…that were married. Or their ex-husbands in the 
village. I can’t, you can’t get ‘em in Leesville here. 
Leesville, Rosepine, DeRidder and this stuff like this without 
having some kind of meeting their relatives. I mean there’s just 
a small place-- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT: A small pool to draw from. And she come in there “well 
I can’t work in this village my ex-husband there.” I said “look, 
you have two choices—there’s one, work with your ex-husband out 
there in that village or don’t work at all, go home. I’m not 
changing anything because of that, told you that at the initial 
briefing. And I said “but I do have a solution to your problem.” 
And I handed her two little three by five blank cards. “Here’s 
two of them.” I said “when you get out to the village, go over 
and tack this up to a tree, ‘this is my tree.’ And then go 
somewhere else across where you can’t see it, not in direct line 
of view, and tack another one up, that’s your husband’s tree, 
your ex-husband. And y’all stand by that tree and you don’t have 
to worry about seeing each other.” I said “You don’t have to 
talk to each other but you have to work in the same village. But 
if you think I’m gonna change everything because your ex-husband 
happens to work here,” I said “what if he feels the same way? I 
got two unhappy people. So two unhappy people go home equals a 
happy place. So, what do you want to do?” “I think we can work 
together.” I said “good idea.” [laughing] 
 
 
SIMS: She figured it out. 
 
PREVATT [01:43:04]: Well, we even had midgets. They said “why 
would you hire a midget?” “Kids. Not allowed to hire kids ‘cause 
they gotta be at least eighteen years old to work here.” I said 
“not only would it take that responsibility for a child anyway, 
but we take the midgets, dress them up like kids and put ‘em out 
there when we have to have a child situation, we have that. And 
I come in one morning to work and this little midget I mean, the 
smallest midget I ever seen, he wasn’t about that tall, and her 
name was Amber. And she was sweetest little thing you could ever 
see. She’d been married and divorced. Married to a full-sized 
guy. But anyway I come in there one morning and I collected 
turtles at the time. 
 
SIMS: Oh. 
 
PREVATT [01:44:04]: You know just of figurines and stuff, noting 
live. And I come in at four o’clock in the morning and I’d, I’d 
left at night at midnight and man I was so tired I pulled my 
chair out and sit in my desk like that I was sitting back to 
relax and “shooooooo” and about that time something touched me 
on my leg and I come completely out from underneath that desk, I 
didn’t know what it was, snake or what. I jumped back like that 
and Amber was standing straight up ‘cause like I said, under my 
desk. [laughing] I said “Amber what the hell are you doing down 
there?” And she said “well I got you a turtle and I wanted to 
surprise you and I got, and I got the early, the early shift 
this morning.” I said “you sure as hell did like I crapped all 
over.” [laughing] But…I, I’d see her downtown and her boyfriend 
used to take her and set her up in the kids thing in the cart 
and push her around Walmart [laughing] and get what they wanted 
and put it in there ‘cause he, little bity thing. But then she 
said “I have to go to work to my other job”—you know this 
another conversation on down—I said “what do you do?” She says 
“I’m a stripper at Pegasus.” I said “a what?!” She said “I’m a 
stripper. A totally nude dancer.” I said “she had me like 
watching my baby sister a perk [laughing] getting stripped.” I 
said “…” and she was one of the headliners in the whole place. 
They, the G.I. just got ov-over and, and watching a naked midget 
you know… 
 
SIMS: So she did both, she did the job at the same time? 
 
PREVATT [01:45:57]: I— 
 
SIMS: Did she do both the role playing and— 
 
PREVATT [01:45:59]: Yeah she done both.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PREVATT [01:46:01]:  When she wasn’t working at role place she 
was stripping. She had an open invitation she could go and strip 
anytime she wanted to.  
 
SIMS: Right, woah.  
 
PREVATT [01:46:10]: And I didn’t know it at the time but you 
have to pay them to work there.  
 
SIMS: Oh really? 
 
PREVATT: [01:46:16]: Yeah. Because you make so much money in 
tips and stuff like that that so many people want the job that 
there’s a demand for it so the owner of the bar makes you pay 
him. In order to get in there and then you make four, five 
hundred dollars a night sometimes. You pay him fifty and 
everybody’s happy. So, I don’t know, I don’t understand how it 
all works but…but I’ll guarantee you this. I’ve talked to the 
people in that actually used the training they got in foreign 
countries. In both hostile countries and friendly countries—
pacification out mission. And they definitely have a role for 
the civilians to do it. Nothing can replace this. When I was in 
the Army, first went in there it was “bang, bang, bang I got 
you.” And shooting blanks with a blank adapter. No way to tell 
if you ever killed anybody or not. It was basically on the honor 
system and that doesn’t work because every unit, their commander 
was— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:47:30]: …He wanted to have the best there was so it 
didn’t work. So, having some, the civilians on the battlefield 
incorporated in the training for the Army is one of the best 
things they’ve ever done. And the best part of it was when you 
had free play. Now it’s so digitized and it’s so controlled by 
observer controllers and by the writers and stuff that it is, 
they try to put too much into it. They don’t have time to do 
shit.  
 
SIMS: Yeah, I’ve heard that from a couple people. 
 
PREVATT [01:48:10]: Yeah. And back then, for every action there 
was an opposite and equal reaction. You know we could, if they 
came through there and they told our mayor to kiss his ass, 
“hey, you can’t talk to our mayor like that” and we, we would 
write. You know and get all pissed off at stuff, just like they 
do today. And it would happen that way. And we could do it. And 
if they promised us they would bring us something and they 
didn’t bring us something, like the aircraft with the sick 
people, we could do something back. 
 
SIMS: So like what, what happens now? They have to just wait 
until a writer says— 
 
PREVATT [01:48:47]: Yeah. Now what they do is they got a, what 
they call ‘injects.’ And these role players will go down range 
and they will sit in the village. And then they’ve got an O.C. 
there that’s got a list of things that they’re gonna do that 
day. And he says “alright, there’s gonna be a squad come in and 
we’ve got to do X, Y, and Z. So you, you, and you will do that. 
And you, you, and you will do that.” “What the rest of us do?” 
“Well dominos, play cards, play this, just sit there and be a, 
an active part of the village.” And I went out there and asked 
one of the O.C.s when I was quality control and I said “and just 
what partner— 
 
SIMS: Hold on one second it looks like the battery just ran out. 
 
PREVATT: Okay…Damnit I’ve broke a second battery of that 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS: This thing heats a…yeah, it’s amazing. It will basically 
do that almost every uhm… 
 
PREVATT [01:49:48]: Yeah I’ve been here for two hours, I’ve been 
here long enough. Bill David told me last night he said, said 
“he gonna be sorry he ever asked you to come in there.” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS [01:50:12]: It’ll just take me a second here…Alright, so 
it’s starting up again.  
 
PREVATT [01:50:29]: Okay. So…the two…it just does not make sense 
what they want to do. They controlled it and, back in the day 
the way we had it it was so realistic, hell ain’t nobody played 
cards, nobody played games, ‘cause you go to a normal farming 
village like that— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [01:50:56]: Everybody works. Might see some little kids 
outside playing and stuff but just about everybody works. So I 
said “we need to have a garden out front, and where the Army can 
see it. And we need to actually plant food in here.” I got ‘em 
the food to plant. I said “you have to actually pull this stuff 
and eat it. You need to cook it, they need to smell it. And here 
you make the soap like Regina does and do this stuff. Back here 
in the back if you chopping wood I wanna see you with an ax in 
your hand, a bunch of wood, chopping wood, all the time.” I said 
“and the people over here that’s got the goats, I want you to 
deliberately let one of the goats go and then everybody in the 
village trying to find him and bring this goat back. Then you go 
the pigs, then you got the chickens. Nobody feeds these animals. 
‘Cause if you feed ‘em, then the poor bastard who’s in charge of 
‘em at night is never gonna get ‘em back in the cage.” And after 
the rotation’s over we have to load ‘em up in cages and bring 
‘em back to a farm where we kept ‘em. But these, every village 
had animals in it, every village had people in it, every village 
had this—they were all so real. We had smoke all the time coming 
up as a signature…and it was…well, but it was a realistic place. 
You go now, you got a village, you got thirty-five people 
sitting there—all of them sitting there playing dominos, cards, 
or something. “Alright, act two stage three, come over and let’s 
do this.” They do this and the rest of the people keep doing it. 
They can’t do anything in the village ‘cause they have ot be 
right there for the O.C. to come get ‘em to go do the next 
scenario. So it’s, it’s just to me you know. I’m just a person 
knowing how it should be. That, that’s not right. It’s just not 
right. You ought to have as much free play as you can. Put in 
what the desired effect of what the commander wants his people 
in his unit to know. Like say if he had, he’s had a tour over in 
Iraq and he had four or five soldiers mishandle a female. Okay? 
Alright now, he’s, he’s gonna have that in his mind. So when he 
goes back to do his training scenario he says “alright, I want 
to have this here so we can show them what not to do.” And good, 
it goes by the experience of the commanders. We have had so 
many, I’m talking ‘bout just about every brigade commander that 
came through Fort Polk always asked to address the role players. 
To thank them for making everything so realistic and everything 
for the soldiers, many times. You know, an example one time I 
went over there and I got into a camp and I went in there and…I, 
I told the brigade commander, said I wanted to see him, said 
“why is that?” And I said “well one of your gate guards down 
here shot at one of my cops on patrol.” I said “I don’t like 
that one damn bit.” And so I went in to talk to him like that. 
And so this…brigade commander said “this is just role playing my 
guy’s doing.” Says “I don’t have any idea what you’re talking 
about”—I can’t get out of character—I said “but I’ll tell you 
what, if you don’t find this guy that shot at or attempt to find 
this guy that shot at one of my cops,” I said “I’m gonna arrest 
your ass and take you to jail.” Well I called my partner over 
there and we snapped up this brigade commander, [laughing] 
carried him out there to the mock car, I had a quick tied and I 
put him on his hands, and O.C. come up says “call it right 
there. He’s arrested, he’s in your car, okay cut the shit and 
he’s there.” And he got all mad so he pulls out his .45 and 
shoots the tires out of my, my car. Noticeably but he don’t have 
any bullets in his gun. He goes “pow pow, pow pow. Shot all your 
tires out now you can’t leave.” Said “what we gonna do?” I said 
“we gonna arrest him again.” [laughing] And it goes from 
there…Prentiss Dixon, who is in, to show you how real it can be, 
Prentiss Dixon is in a motorcycle accident, broke his neck and 
his back. He’s up in Shreveport V.A. Hospital so I go up there 
and see him all the time. But at the time he weighed about three 
hundred and fifty pounds and he’s about five-foot nothing tall. 
And he played the preacher. And I was driving him and I was the 
mayor and we were going to go do something. We got right to the, 
right to the gate of the hospital and all of a sudden Prentiss 
falls out. We knew he was gonna do it. He went to get out of the 
car and he fell out and passed out—he was having a heart attack. 
Well there’s a medic right there so the medic comes over. He 
says “let me tell you how to solve this problem.” I said 
“What?!” I said “you, you’re a medical person, right? Do some 
first-aid or something or whatever the hell that C.P.C. shit or 
whatever it is y’all do. Do something and save his life!” And he 
said “well the first thing you do is—” he tried to teach me how 
to give the guy C.P.R. right then with him dying. I said, I 
said—and C.O.P. says, the O.C. came up and looked at him and 
said “this situation never gonna get any better.” Said “he’s 
just stupid.” So he kills him [poof] and he killed him he, he 
said “you’re dead alright your time’s up you die.” So he dies 
and then the medic walks off so…me and Steve Humphries, that guy 
I told you was the medic, well he says “we’re gonna have a 
funeral for him later on.” And so that part goes away. We go in 
there to talk to this hospital commander about it. Well the 
first thing we run into in the hospital, the hospital 
commander’s a woman—full bird colonel. So we go in, Steve is 
good, he’s a good actor. So we go in there like that and we sit 
down and the colonel come in here and says “ladies and gentleman 
I want you to see colonel so-and-so, she’s the commander of the 
hospital.” And so Steve looks up at her and just glances, 
doesn’t shake hands, doesn’t do anything, he says, just keeps on 
talking. So she sits down and…she started to say something like 
that he says “hey, go get us some coffee, go get us some snacks 
and stuff and bring ‘em back here. Just shut up and leave this 
meeting.” [laughing] “Well I’m the commander.” “Don’t care what 
you are just go get us some coffee.” He talks to her and she 
just getting madder and madder and madder…about the stuff and he 
starts talking about women and all that stuff and finally the 
commander actually gets up, goes in the other room and tells 
somebody else to get coffee, but they bring coffee and stuff. 
And they get in there and we going through it and, and I am 
sitting here saying “what am I gonna do next.” I can’t look at 
this colonel ‘cause I--[laughing] I know she gonna eye ball, eye 
ball with me— 
 
SIMS [01:59:21]: Right.  
 
PREVATT [01:59:23]: So we managed to get through that part okay 
and then we go outside, then I get a radio call. And…course the 
radios are all notional and stuff so I have to act like somebody 
told me this so I said “Colonel,” I said “we were supposed to go 
to Shughart Gordon After a while but I gotta get over there 
now.” Says “the C.L.F. with Cortanian Liberation Front came in 
and…they murdered my wife, Duck.” [laughing] Quack quack. So she 
said “we’re gonna go over there. But I tell you something Jack,” 
she said “If I get over there and found out there ain’t no dead 
duck,” she says “you gone take his place. You gone be a dead 
duck.” “Yes ma’am.” Then I got off by myself with the radio I 
said “look, I need a gravemarker that says quack quack. I need a 
grave, I need you to scatter some feathers around, and all, and 
you’ve got fifteen minutes to do it before I get there.” “Yes 
sir.” So they start jumping, get over there and somebody that 
day had chicken. Throwed some bones over there, they dug the 
grave, they took a piece of Styrofoam, painted it black, put 
quack quack on it, stuck it up—the paint was still wet—and when 
the colonel got over there she looked down like that and she 
says “I don’t know how you did it but you did it you son of a 
bitch.” [laughing] That’s exactly what she told me. And the 
reason she was so mad [laughing] we had, we had regular…I don’t 
know, ABC News or one of them news—real agency was here, 
interviewing her. When I told her about Quack Quack and I said 
“yeah Quack Quack’s dead, poor Quack Quack” and when I, when I 
said that, she thought it was so, and sh-she she had a cold and 
[laughing] and so she, she, you know how you’re gonna laugh but 
you try to hold it because it ain’t funny— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PREVATT [02:01:53]: She grabbed her mouth like that and she shot 
snot out [laughing] out her nose. Tried to get something to wipe 
it off with, smearing across her face, she was one mad son of a 
sucker, man. She “had better be a bed or dead duck or you’re 
gonna be it.” [laughing] ‘Cause she ended up being on national 
TV with snot coming out of her face. And I said “okay ma’am.” 
But…you get to meet so many people doing this job out there. And 
it so many other, so many different fields and so many different 
things, and you really got a, a mission. And that’s to train the 
soldiers. And once you go over there and you seem ‘em actually 
using this stuff, you find out why it’s important to know 
customs and courtesies. What’s allowed, what’s not allowed. What 
to eat, what’s polite and what’s not polite. But I tell you 
what, they talk about peace and war—when I worked over there 
in…Macedonia, I had Muslims working right next to Serbians, all 
day long. Never had a problem with lunch time, never had a 
problem with them during prayer times, I never had a problem 
with anything. They all wanted a job, they all worked. They all 
got along. They didn’t socialize at night. When they got off 
work with each other they all went their separate ways, unless 
it was something for me or some kind of a party of something 
they would all show up. And if they had pig, the Muslims just 
didn’t eat it—very simple, the Muslims just had goat. It was…I 
think it’s how the mediator works to how the people accepts it. 
My safety briefings—like I had three hundred and fifty-five 
electricians that worked for me. And I didn’t pick up a wrench, 
nothing. I was strictly a supervisor and I had three or four 
other ex-pats work for me, electricians, who didn’t carry tools 
either. We just told the people what to do and went around 
supervising. And then, so these guys, just about any of ‘em, 
could shoot circles around any of the electricians we got in the 
United States anyway. ‘Cause they start at ninth grade and they 
study, well actually in the seventh, eight, in the seventh and 
eight grade they take all the theory of electricity—they study 
in the classroom. And in ninth grade, they go to school half a 
day and they go work with an electrician half a day. And again, 
on, on theories and how to do stuff. And then by the time they 
get to the twelfth grade they work a couple hours in the morning 
and then they go work the rest of the day with pay. Very limited 
pay with the, the electricians. And in the communist days, when 
they were there when it was all communist state, they had…a 
three track system for an electrician. One was you went here to 
industrial, high-power line technician and things like that. 
Then you had the high-rise and residential and commercial and 
then you had strictly rural and commercial. And…the communist 
regime required you to work two years in each field before you 
got your masters of electrician degree. And we go over and get a 
master in technician and you had a sucker who knows every damn 
thing there was to know about any—what do you want him to fix a, 
a telling time machine or a coffee pot—he could do both of them. 
If you wanted to go up there and type into a fire line somewhere 
he could do it. I mean you had the best of the best. And our 
electricians, you think they’re, they’re all specialized. They 
either work on high-lines or they work on commercial or they 
work on this. This guy over here does it all so don’t go over 
telling this guy he’s an idiot because he can’t speak English, 
don’t—no he doesn’t speak English but he speaks nine other damn 
languages, how many do you speak? You screw up English. You 
know, and, and you’re gonna go over talking about this guy like 
he’s something else. I said “you don’t know.” I said “you gotta 
go.” And when I was, go back to role playing I’d get back in 
there, I said “hey this is the attitude you people have to have 
when you go into it. Don’t, don’t accept slander from this guy 
on your particular profession and do that or don’t allow them to 
mishandle your women or don’t do this or don’t let him kill that 
chicken ‘cause that chicken will give y’all eggs for the next 
six years. You know, it would really upset you. Don’t let ‘em 
disgrace your house, don’t let ‘em speed up and down the road, 
all that dust coming in here—talk about dust—and get out there 
and tell ‘em to slow down. If you have to put speed bumps up put 
speed bumps up.” You know I said “whatever it takes.” I said 
“y’all have to understand that this is your country. You’re not 
playing. I understand that this is role play but you’re not 
playing. You have to make these people think that this is really 
your country. Even though you’re speaking it, even though you 
can do this stuff.” I said “as far as they’re concerned,what 
they’re looking at is the temperament and the village. You gotta 
be real. If you ain’t gonna be real then go home. You know, do 
it.” That’s my story and I’m sticking to it. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [02:08:23]: Thank you. 
 
PREVATT: Anything else I can help you with? 
 
SIMS: Uhm… 
 
PREVATT: I know you got some questions. 
 
SIMS: Well really the, I think we’ve got enough material here. 
Uhm…two things, one is— 
 
 
END OF INTERVIEW [02:08:39]