1 
VIERECK, GLENNA 
Interviewed by Chris Sims 
January 11, 2018 
 
 
SIMS: Well, could, could we start off. Could you say and spell 
your full name just so I have that accurate? 
 
VIERECK: Uh-huh. It’s Glenna, G-L-E-N-N-A. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
VIERECK: And Woody, cause that’s—everybody calls me Woody by my 
middle name.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK: Viereck. V-I-E-R-E-C-K 
 
SIMS [0:00:23]: So, how did you get the nickname Woody—or is 
that actually your middle name? 
 
VIERECK: That’s actually my middle name.  
 
SIMS: Oh, okay.  
 
SIMS: That’s, that’s an unusual name. Or—is it a family name, or 
how did it— 
 
VIERECK: Yes, sir. 
 
SIMS: What’s the background of it? 
 
VIERECK [0:00:40]: From Cataloochee up in the western part of 
North Carolina.  
 
SIMS: Oh, okay. 
 
VIERECK: It’s my grandfather’s last name.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. And did you grow up in North Carolina? 
 
VIERECK [0:00:50]: No, uh-huh.  
 
SIMS: Oh, okay. So, tell me a little bit about where you grew up 
and if you had any family members that were connected to the 
military? 
 
2 
 
VIERECK: Well, grew up in Pasadena, Texas. And my, my father was 
a Marine. He served in the service, and so did my brother and my 
son.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK [0:01:15]: I grew up in Pasadena. My mom and him both 
from North Carolina, and they moved down there before I was 
born. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And how did you end up in the, in Leesville—or in 
that area? 
 
VIERECK: After 9/11, my husband and I—my late husband and I—
moved here from Colorado.  
 
SIMS [0:01:44]: And is that because he had a connection to Fort 
Polk? 
 
VIERECK: Oh, well he was military. He, he’d been in the service. 
But his sister had property here. And so we came here to stay 
here, ‘cause she didn’t—she just had the property here. And we 
came here. 
 
SIMS: And then you all built a house, or— 
 
VIERECK: Uh-huh. 
 
SIMS: Okay. Great. And what type of work did your husband do on 
post? 
 
VIERECK [0:02:12]: Oh, he didn’t work on post.  
 
SIMS: Oh, okay— 
 
VIERECK: We was—he, he worked for the phone company. He was a 
subcontractor for the phone company.  
 
SIMS: And did you—did you know about role playing before you got 
the job there? 
 
VIERECK [0:02:26]: Yes. I did, ‘cause I worked doing the vending 
machines down South Fort. And I’d heard about it.  
 
 
3 
SIMS: And what—I mean what was your—do you think most people, 
like in the town, know about it? Or is it something you’d only 
know if you were kind of on base? 
 
VIERECK: No, I think mostly every—anyone in town would know 
about it. 
 
SIMS: And how did you get a job there? How does that work? Is it 
just like any other job to do an interview? 
 
VIERECK [0:02:58]: Yes ,an application—put in an application. 
 
SIMS: So, why—I guess, I’m curious to know what, what drew you 
to do that type of work? 
 
VIERECK: I love the outdoors, and I’m really strong military—
anything to help our soldiers.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. And so, tell me about the—maybe give me an overview 
of when you started working there and how long you were there? 
 
VIERECK: Well I, I started there in 2004.  
 
SIMS: And- 
 
VIERECK: And been there ever since. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And how often do you work. Is it—it’s not like full-
time, right? It’s basically- 
 
VIERECK: Well, it’s part time on call. Once we work usually a 
month—two weeks a month out of the—every month.  
 
SIMS [0:04:00]: And what are—maybe take me back to the first 
time that you went out to one of the villages. Can you describe 
to me what it was like to, you know, it’s not your typical first 
day of work, right? Like what, what it was like? 
 
VIERECK: It was like, wowee, this is really realistic. And the 
people really are dedicated to what they do.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK [0:04:28]: And it makes you feel good.  
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
 
4 
VIERECK: ‘Cause it was like a family type, you know, people— it 
was very close knit and, and very strong belief in what they was 
doing.  
 
SIMS: And so did— 
 
VIERECK: It wasn’t just a job. There’s a reason why you’re doing 
it.  
 
SIMS [0:04:50]: Uh-huh. Was that the first time that you ever 
had a job that you sort of felt that way about the work you were 
doing? 
 
VIERECK: Oh, yes. Yes.  
 
SIMS: And is that—does that come from sort of talking to the 
soldiers, or is it more just knowing that you’re part of the 
mission? Or is it just sort of like in how the--how you’re 
trained for the job that that becomes, you know— 
 
VIERECK [0:05:22]: It’s how you train for the job. And, and it’s 
just the rewarding of knowing that you could save a soldier’s 
life, because it’s all about the soldiers… and who would train. 
 
SIMS: So, could you tell me about some of the different roles 
that you’ve played over the years? Like I don’t know if you 
remember any of the names of the characters or like the, the 
jobs that they had—that would be good to know, you know, some of 
the specifics. 
 
VIERECK: Well, I, I could just tell you. You know, like when we 
do mass, mass casualties, you know, and stuff like that. We 
usually do, you know, all different kinds of jobs, you know. 
It’s just—it’s whatever, you know, is needed for you to do you 
do, whether it be portraying being an injured person or, or 
whatever you know.  
 
SIMS [0:06:30]: Mhm. But do, do you get a specific name and like 
nationality and stuff like that?  
 
VIERECK: Yeah, it all depends on, on what we’re doing. So we, we 
had to go—we had always stay in character. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Is that hard to do—to always stay in character? 
 
VIERECK [0:06:48]: No, because you know the reason why you’re 
doing it and it’s not hard, you know. 
 
5 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
VIERECK: I guess the hardest thing would be, for some people 
would be, the long hours sometimes. Or you know, out in the 
weather. You know, sometimes we might be out in the rain, or 
cold, or heat—that would be the hardest. But you know, then you 
think about hey, you know, the reason why you’re doing it—it’s 
more rewarding than the situation that you’re in—whether it’s 
cold, hot, raining, whatever.  
 
SIMS [0:07:28]: Yeah, it’s—I’m sure the soldiers, you know—it’s 
I guess probably one thing to do it for a day but to imagine a 
whole year of you know, being in that type of environment.  
 
VIERECK: Yeah, and, and, and you know, and knowing that they can 
walk away from their mistakes there and, and learn by it. And 
that way whatever situation in real life they get into, think 
you might recall and say hey, you know, it didn’t work out too 
good, you know, down there in Fort Polk, maybe ought not do it 
that that way.  
 
SIMS [0:08:04]: So, what are, what are some of the examples of 
like lessons you think soldiers learned? Like things they did 
wrong in Fort Polk but that is going to help them, you know, 
when they’re in Afghanistan? 
 
VIERECK: Say they leave there—you know, say a medic is, is 
caring for somebody and they leave their weapon unattended.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
VIERECK: You know. That’s one good example. And, and one good—
another one would be to be aware of surroundings, you know, 
where they’re at.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. And do you, do you get a chance to talk to the 
soldiers? Or is it— 
 
VIERECK: Very seldom, because we had to always stay in 
character.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. So, they would have to like initiate talking to you. 
 
VIERECK: Right. 
 
SIMS: But you don’t—you’re not supposed to speak English, right? 
 
6 
 
VIERECK [0:09:05]: Yes. It all depends on what we’re portraying, 
you know, whether we can speak English or not.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. But do you get a chance to talk to the OC’s and the 
other people that are there helping to run the, the training? 
 
VIERECK [09:26]: Sometimes you do, but you know, it’s like their 
supposed to be invisible, so you always try to stay in 
character. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK: That’s our main thing: stay in character. 
 
SIMS [0:09:35]: So, would you say it’s a fun job?  
 
VIERECK: It’s a rewarding job. A fun—I guess you could say fun, 
but it’s more so rewarding of the reason why you’re doing it. 
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
VIERECK: ‘Cause sometimes it’s not fun if you’re out there in 
the cold, wet, raining. That’s not too fun, but it’s, it’s so 
rewarding—the reason why you’re doing this. 
 
SIMS [0:10:07]: Right. Now, do you ever bring—I know there are a 
lot of props and like, you know, it looks really realistic out 
there. Do you—have you ever sort of decorated the space that 
you’re in? Or do you bring stuff from home to make it seem more 
like a real place? 
 
VIERECK: Yes. We have a market and stuff like that. Stuff that 
you know, we don’t need here, we can bring out, you know, and 
donate stuff and just leave there.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. And have you done—is that stuff that you’ve done as 
well? 
 
VIERECK: Oh, yes. I’ve gotten rid, rid of a lot of clothes from 
that [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Yeah, I just took a lot of stuff to Goodwill. 
And it makes me think like well, all that stuff could be in a 
village somewhere too— 
 
VIERECK: Right. 
 
7 
 
SIMS: Especially some stuff nobody quite wants but, you know, 
would make sense to have in a house or something.  
 
VIERECK: Mhm.  
 
SIMS: That’s funny. How was it—you’ve been there quite a while. 
How has it changed like since you started? 
 
VIERECK: Well, it all depends on what’s going around. It, it 
changes on what’s going around in the world. You know, what our 
situation in real life is how it changes.  
 
SIMS [0:11:30]: Mhm. Do you feel like the sets have gotten, 
like, more realistic or more…fancy? 
 
VIERECK: Oh, it’s gotten way more realistic. People have became 
more professional. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. You mean the role players or the people who kind of 
add to the set? 
 
VIERECK [0:11:50]: Well, the role players have always been, but 
they became even more and more you know, as time goes on. You 
know, this group has been there, you know, longer and longer and 
longer, and—but it’s just—you’re getting—I think they’re getting 
such well training now. You know, we get such well-trained 
beforehand.  
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
VIERECK [0:12:15]: And, and the company we work for is so 
professional and backs their employees and stuff. And, and we’re 
going to get them prepared to go out into the box.  
 
SIMS [0:12:30]: Mhm. What about soldiers who have already maybe 
come through once and then they’ve have already been oversees? 
Do they come back through the box a second time like if they’re 
going to be deployed again? 
 
VIERECK: Some have.  
 
SIMS: Is there anybody—do you recognize people coming back 
through? Or is it so many different types of people you wouldn’t 
necessarily- 
 
VIERECK: No, you don’t recognize them.  
 
8 
 
SIMS [0:13:00]: Mhm. And do you have a sense, like if—I think a 
lot of people who don’t have a lot of familiarity with the Army 
might not think of a question like this. But is it different if 
like a group from New York comes versus a group from Texas? Like 
how does that— 
 
VIERECK: Oh yeah, I guess because of the climate.  
 
SIMS: Right, yeah.  
 
VIERECK: It would mean more so—you could get someone from Alaska 
or wherever or New York—the climate sometimes gets to ‘em, 
especially in the summertime.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. Yeah, so they have to learn how to deal with that.  
 
VIERECK [0:13:41]: And they have to learn how to, have to learn 
how to hydrate.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. Is there anything we haven’t covered that you think 
would be important for people to know about role players and the 
work that they do? 
 
VIERECK: It’s something that we take very seriously, and we’re 
very proud of what we do.  
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
VIERECK: Because they can, you know, walk away from their 
mistakes here—compared to what in real life, some of them 
couldn’t.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK: If they made the same mistake in the same situation in 
real life.  
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
VIERECK [0:14:32]: And sometimes it’s really realistic. And you 
can see, see the eyes of the soldiers.  
 
SIMS: Yeah, that they’re kind of caught up in the moment and 
they realized, you know, something didn’t go right.  
 
 
9 
VIERECK: Mhm. But you know, anytime we’ve ever heard from any of 
them, they, they’ve really thanked us, and they said it prepared 
them for real life situations.  
 
SIMS [0:15:05]: Mhm. Yeah, that makes sense. Thank you. Can you—
do you know anybody else who might be interested to talk with 
me? I’ve talked with a number of folks so far, but I’m trying to 
do as many as I can. 
 
VIERECK: No, I, I really, you know. You’ve talked to, you know—
have you talked to any supervisors or anything like that? 
 
SIMS: A couple of folks who retired, who were supervisors that 
were higher up.  
 
VIERECK: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Shift—I guess shift leaders and-  
 
VIERECK: Okay. 
 
SIMS: People above them—I forgot what the term was, but people 
who help are, help write the scenarios and stuff.   
 
VIERECK: Okay, yeah. Then you talked to, you know, a good bit of 
people if you’ve talked to shift leaders and, you know, and 
people that have written scenarios.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
VIERECK [0:16:07]: Because it takes a lot of people to, you 
know, get prepared for this, you know.  
 
SIMS: Right. Definitely. Yeah. I think the—you don’t really know 
until you see it all and realize all the moving parts and the 
fact that there’s so many villages, it’s not just one. 
 
VIERECK: Right. And there’s so many different characters and 
people’s got, you know, things they’ve got to do. And I mean if 
it’s, if it’s training for a natural disaster or, or anything. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Definitely. Well, I really appreciate your time.  
 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 16:49]