1 
PONDER, GWEN 
Interviewed by Chris Sims 
February 18, 2018 
 
 
SIMS: Please spell your name. 
 
PONDER: Gwen, G-W-E-N. Ponder, P-O-N-D-E-R.  
 
SIMS: And could you tell me a little bit about where you were 
born and what type of work your parents did? 
 
PONDER: I was actually born in Hogansville, Georgia, and my 
parents both worked in the cotton mill up until I was a 
teenager.  
 
SIMS: So, I’m from Atlanta, but I don’t—I haven’t heard that 
town. Where in the state is it? 
 
PONDER [0:00:34]: It’s below Grantville, Newnan. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: It’s about, probably 90 miles South of Atlanta—between 
Atlanta and Columbus, kind of.  
 
SIMS: Okay. How did you end up in Louisiana? 
 
PONDER: My husband was stationed there.  
 
SIMS: And if I remember, he was fairly high ranked, high 
ranking? Is that right? 
 
PONDER: He was actually the Post Sergeant Major, and they did 
not want to hire me at role play because of that. So, I had to 
talk really fast. 
 
SIMS [0:01:10]: [Laughing] So, tell me a little bit about that. 
So, as you moved from base to base, which I assumed you did. Was 
it hard for you to get jobs because of your husband’s rank? 
 
PONDER: Not really, because my husband really didn’t—I mean, he 
kind of would’ve preferred for me not to work at all. And I, 
being me, sometimes I just got wall-hairs and wanted to do 
things. So, if I really wanted a job, I never had a trouble 
getting a job. The only problem with military spouses having 
jobs is it’s hard to have a career job, because about the time—
 
2 
like if you get a job and move up, by the time you move up 
you’re moving to another post. So, that—that’s the hardest part, 
but that never really bothered me. I just enjoy whatever I’m 
doing. 
 
SIMS: So, what—can you tell me about the type of jobs you had 
before you were at Fort Polk, at the other bases? 
 
Ponder: Oh, I’ve done everything from working in meat processing 
plants, child care, a waitress. I’ve had my own daycare in my 
home. N 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
 
PONDER: Now I have my own business here. I have a store in town, 
a gift shop. I have sold credit cards, signed people up for 
credit cards. I have telemarketed. I’ve sold pitches—just 
various odd jobs.  
 
SIMS: Yeah, sounds like pretty much everything [laughing].  
 
PONDER: [Laughing] 
 
SIMS [0:02:46]: So, how did you—how long were you at Fort Polk 
before you knew about role play? 
 
PONDER: Well actually, we were stationed in Fort Carson, 
Colorado. And they was moving the units from Fort Carson to Fort 
Polk, and my husband had been offered the, the job as Fort 
Sergeant Major. And his Colonel said, “Yeah, that’s right. We 
gunna get Gwen down there, and we’re gunna put her out in the 
box to do role play.” Well, I had no idea what role play was. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: Well, the more they talked about it—and they kept joking 
about it—I really wanted to do it. So, I kept saying, “Well, how 
do you do it?” Well, nobody wanted to tell me, because they 
didn’t think they would hire me. So, I found out on my own where 
to go to apply for it. And I spoke with this gentleman named Tom 
Barry—he was a wonderful guy out there. And he goes, “You know 
we can’t hire you.” And I said, “Why?” And he goes, “Because if 
you get hurt out here, or bla-bla-blah, all the political 
issues.” I said, “I’ll sign papers. I don’t care.” He says, 
“Well, you can’t go out there and be the Post Sergeant Major’s 
wife.” I said, “I’m not planning on doing that.” I said, “I’m 
 
3 
Gwen, and my husband is the Sergeant Major. I’m not the Sergeant 
Major.” So, he says, “Well, we’ll give it a trial and see if it 
works.” Well, I think I worked out there three, four years, 
until we moved.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And I never got into any big trouble, just the same 
trouble that all the other role players got into doing things we 
probably shouldn’t.  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] 
 
PONDER: [Laughing] But, but—it, it was a good job. I loved it. 
And I was just thankful they gave me the opportunity to do it. 
It was a great experience.  
 
SIMS [0:04:30]. Mhm. So, what was the, the best part of the job 
for you, in your opinion?   
 
PONDER: I don’t know that there was a best part. I just loved 
the whole—I, I just loved everything about the job. I liked the 
fact that we were helping soldiers. And I liked the fact that it 
gave me a different perspective on third world countries and 
countries that we go into to help about how the villagers and 
the civilians there feel. Because you just automatically think 
oh, the Americans are coming in. They’re going to help the 
civilians and they’re going to be happy about it. Well, when you 
are in the situation that they’re in—and our situation wasn’t 
near as bad as the ones they’re in. And you see how upset you 
get when they come and they run the tanks across your crops and 
that’s the only thing you’ve got to eat. Or, you see how they 
come in and they take over your villages and you can’t go out of 
your house, because they’re shooting around your buildings. And 
I mean, there’s just a lot of things that as a civilian, you 
don’t think about until you’re in that, that position. And I, I, 
I looked at the way these people think about us a lot 
differently. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER [0:05:47]: It’s like you’ve got the understanding of the 
other side. 
 
SIMS: Right. That’s really interesting. I mean it sort of—by 
being in that role, you’re literally in someone else’s shoes, 
right? 
 
4 
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: And you can sort of, you know, understand those feelings—
which I imagine are like really real feelings. Like if 
something’s happening to your crops, it’s not just acting, 
right? 
 
PONDER: Yeah. And there was a lot of times that we got into 
scenarios, and you—I mean you, you really get into it. You know 
that your role playing, but you get very passionate about—we, we 
live there. That was our village. That was our life. And you get 
passionate about it.  
 
SIMS [0:06:31] So, can you tell me about the different 
characters that you played? 
 
PONDER: When I first started, it, it—for a woman to really be 
able to talk, you had to be a wealthy land owner or a business 
owner. So, I was—I had a general store in Carnis when I first 
started there. And that gave me the ability when people—when the 
soldiers or whatever came in—that gave me the ability to talk to 
‘em or go to the town meetings, or to, to have interaction. 
There were several of us that were allowed to do that because 
we—because of our roles. Then, as it expanded, they moved me 
into Shughart Gordon. And when I moved there, I actually had the 
general store and the hotel. And I ran both of those. 
 
SIMS: Wow, very entrepreneurial.  
 
PONDER [0:07:28] [Laughing] Well, the hotel was more of a mock. 
We didn’t actually have people stay in there until we did 
takedowns. And on takedown night, we all spent the night out 
there. And it, it, it was interesting. But, but the more money 
you had, the more power that you had as a woman.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. What type of things did you sell in that general 
store? 
 
PONDER [0:07:50] We had a lot of clothing, like the, the 
villagers and the augmentees and stuff that came in. They could 
come in there are get like shirts, or pants, or dresses to wear, 
cause we wore like third world country clothing out there. We 
didn’t wear our regular clothes. We had—we did little arts and 
crafts out of junk that we’d find around. I mean, we didn’t 
actually sell anything, like for money but—like real money.  
 
 
5 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: But, we had things that, you know, you could get for the 
villagers—we’d take like Coke cans and paint ‘em. We would find 
the shells from the, the machine guns. And one girl would take 
‘em, and she would make like little six packs of sodas and 
painted Coke things on ‘em. I actually think I have one I can 
take a picture of.  
 
SIMS: Oh, cool. 
 
PONDER [0:08:40] But, I mean, just all kinds of little—I mean, 
just—it was junk [laughing].   
 
SIMS: So, did you—I’ve heard some stories of people would like 
buy things on their own and kind of bring them, you know, bring 
them to the role play. Did you do stuff like that? 
 
PONDER [0:09:04]: Well, I think we all brought stuff out there 
periodically. Like, Gloria Albrighten, she was one of our cooks. 
And we would all bring food, and she would cook, and everybody 
got to eat. I mean it wasn’t, like, you know it wasn’t just for 
the role players or—it was for whoever was there. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And a lot of times, if we wanted something on our walls 
or something, we’d bring our own something from our house, or 
something that we’d brought to bring out there. It wasn’t 
required, it was just something if you wanted to do it you 
could. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: Sometimes people brought stuff out. Like if they had a 
chair they wanted to sit in, they’d bring their chair. And then—
you know, it was their chair. They got to keep it if, when they 
left. But- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PONDER: We just it—like I said. We made it—it was our home. We 
lived there. 
 
SIMS [0:09:56] And what were the years you were there? 
 
 
6 
PONDER: Oh gosh, I don’t even know. I’d have to ask my husband 
that. I’m not good with dates, let me call for him real quick. 
[To husband] Remember what years I worked at role play? He said 
about ’97 to ’98. [To husband] I worked there longer than ’98. I 
went to work right after we got there, though. It had to be ’96 
to ’98. Yeah. Alright. 
 
SIMS: So that was before like they did the Iraq-Afghanistan 
ones, right? 
 
PONDER: It was before what? 
 
SIMS [0:11:05]: Sort of Iraq and Afghanistan? So, you were—what 
were the countries, I guess, or the scenarios that you all did? 
 
PONDER: Oh, gosh. We—I was there during Golden Nugget. Do you 
know when that was? I thought- 
 
SIMS: No, I hadn’t heard that yet. Golden Nugget, you said? 
 
PONDER: Yeah. ’94—I, I, I have a kill card from ’94 Alright. Oh, 
I worked there twice. Oh, that’s why I’m getting—we left and 
then we came back, and I worked there twice. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. So, you were there just when they started role play 
it sounds like? Very, very- 
 
PONDER [0:11:59]: I went there shortly after they moved from 
Little Rock.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: I, it was—I was—we all moved and transitioned when it 
was moving post around. 
 
SIMS: Mhm, and did your husband—was he assigned to the box? Or 
did he have another type of job on post? 
 
PONDER: No. No he was—he was the Post Sergeant Major. 
 
SIMS: Okay, so it was the whole, whole post. 
 
PONDER: He came out though, but when he came, I went in the 
opposite direction. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Right. Is it something you all would talk about 
at home, or— 
 
7 
 
PONDER: Not really. I mean there was—I mean, if something fun 
happened, I’d tell him about it. But there was a few things that 
happened out there that came across his desk, I guess you could 
say.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: I almost got head butted with a—by one of the rifles off 
a MP truck one time. We were supposed to be hauling. At the MP’s 
Americans go home. And one of the soldiers got really mad at me 
and jumped off the MP vehicle and had the M16 extended to hit me 
in the head with it. And the OC grabbed him, and that wasn’t 
very good.  
 
SIMS: No, that’s- 
 
PONDER: And then this other guy was out there, and we couldn’t 
get him to cooperate. He was the augmentee—an augmentee is one 
of the soldiers who come out and they play villagers. And he 
wouldn’t do anything that anybody asked him to, and they came 
and got me. And I went over and was asking him, and—I’m sorry, 
I’m getting over this flu bug. And he told me to f-off, that he 
didn’t have to do anything. And he OC heard him, and they pulled 
him out and gave him an Article 15. But, none of those things 
were, they, they weren’t—they weren’t because of me, but they 
were because of me, you know? 
 
SIMS [0:14:03] Right. It wasn’t because of who you were, it was 
just— 
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Do you remember any funny things that happened, sort of 
during role play? 
 
PONDER: Oh yeah, there was a lot of funny things. One, one of 
the really funny things is we had to carry—we had to take a goat 
from Carnis to Jettertown. And that’s approximately three or 
four miles, maybe even five miles. And we had these old ratty 
cars that we drove out there. And so, we had this soldier—he was 
an American soldier. And he says, “I’m going go with y’all to 
protect you from here to Jettertown to, to take this goat.” And 
we said, “Well, you know we’ve got to put it back here— “I know, 
I know how to handle goats. I know how, no problem.” So, we’re 
going down this road. Well, this goat decides to jump, and it 
tries to jump out the window. 
 
8 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] 
 
PONDER: So, we’re holding the goat’s back legs trying to keep it 
from jumping out of the car. We finally get the goat back in the 
car and he’s like, “Well, y’all didn’t do this right,” you know. 
So, we get back over to Jettertown, and we start to get this 
goat out. And he’s like, “Let me get this goat because y’all 
don’t know what you’re doing.” Well, he grabbed this goat like 
we told him not to, and he kicked him in the nose and broke his 
nose. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Wow. Goats are mean. 
 
PONDER [0:15:20]: And it was just a little baby goat, but I’m 
telling you, they still got a kick. But we had a lot of funny, 
funny things happen out there. And that was just one that was 
really—I thought was real funny. We went to a, a,a—one of the 
medical facilities one time. And we were trying to break into 
the, the medical thing there. And we pulled our truck up, and 
they wouldn’t let us in. And we’re telling them that we’re sick 
and blah-blah-blah. Well, the guy comes out and drops a paper on 
the ground, and we put our foot over the paper. And they go back 
in, and we get it. So, we have their secret information that we 
weren’t supposed to have. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER [0:16:06]: When we did the Golden Nugget, that’s when we 
trained all the—we had Czechoslovakians, Georgians, Russians, I 
don’t know who all. I mean, it was like 14 different countries 
out there. 
 
SIMS: Golden Nugget’s the name of the whole— 
 
PONDER: That was the exercise. 
 
SIMS: Exercise, yep. Did Golden Nugget refer to anything, or 
it’s just a random name? 
 
PONDER: I don’t know really what it referred to. It was just the 
name they named the exercise. They brought all these different 
countries in to train ‘em. And they had like lanes—we didn’t 
actually do like a scenario. But we did do scenarios, but it was 
more like they did lanes. Instead of—it wasn’t like a week-long 
training or month training. It was—they had to go through 
 
9 
different stations. And we were set up as villagers, but we were 
set up in stations.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER [0:16:55]: And, we had to—we took a loaf of bread. And—
no, we didn’t. We had potato chips for this one. We had a bag of 
potato chips, and we had a bomb in the potato chip bag. 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
PONDER: So, we’re eating—we’re eating the potato chips, and 
we’re trying to walk up to these soldiers. And the guy started 
to pull the, the hand grenade out of the potato chip bag. And 
someone saw him or something, and this soldier grabbed me and we 
rolled down the hill. I had F16 between my legs. I was black and 
blue, but I didn’t die [laughing].  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] And so, but the grenade sort of went off? Or it 
didn’t? 
 
PONDER: It went off, and it got a few of them, but it didn’t get 
everybody.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: It didn’t go as planned, but it, it you know. We hid, we 
hid grenades in potato chip bags. We hid them in loaves of 
bread. We’d hollow out the bread and put it down in it, and we’d 
be eating it and going up. We did—we had this one girl. We made 
her look like she was pregnant, and we took her to the hospital. 
And we was trying—actually we went to the PX with her. We was 
trying to get in, and we actually had blood bags and popped ‘em. 
And then, when they saw the blood, they’d come out. And when 
they’d come out, we’d rush the gate. But, I mean, we did all 
kind of crazy stuff [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: It sounds like fun.  
 
PONDER: It was fun.  
 
SIMS [0:18:33]: So, did you all kind of invent those things? Or, 
did people tell you, you know, try this or try that? 
 
PONDER: Well, back in the day, we had free reign pretty much. We 
got to do—they, they gave us, they gave us an idea of what we 
were supposed to be doing. But we got to come up with how we 
 
10 
wanted to execute it, and what we wanted to do. And from what 
I’m being told now, they were, were on a not—I don’t know if 
you’d call it a script. But they don’t have free reign to do—do, 
do the things that we did. Like we would be sitting in, like I’d 
be in Carnis. And I’d decide I want to go visit somebody in 
Jettertown, and I would just call the OC and say, “I wanna go 
over to Jettertown. Can you clear it?” And he’d say, “Yeah.” And 
we’d go over. And we might get into some trouble or we might 
not. And when I say trouble, I mean like run into soldiers that 
we shouldn’t or whatever. But now, I don’t think they’re allowed 
to do that. I don’t think they let them roam around like we did. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, I don’t think so. Maybe a couple people do, like the 
taxi drivers, but I think it’s much more regulated. And there’s 
more rules about like what they can or can’t do. 
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Which makes sense, but I’ve heard a lot of people say it’s 
been in a way less enjoyable as work. 
 
PONDER [0:19:56]: Yeah. Yeah. Well, and I don’t know—I think 
that you get more out of it if you get to kind of free play a 
little bit. I know when I was in Shughart Gordon, we had the 
Germans come through. And me—myself, another role player and 
three augmentees, we had to sit in the basement of a three-story 
hotel from about ten o’clock until around four thirty, five the 
next morning. And we couldn’t move. We couldn’t talk. We 
couldn’t go the bathroom. We couldn’t do anything. And it’s 
pitch black down there. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: Because the Germans were coming through trying to find 
us. They knew that we were in there, but they couldn’t find us. 
And then when they finally come down, there’s, there’s stairs 
coming down into the basement. And this is like a cement 
structure, if you’ve ever seen it.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And they come down through the stairways, and their 
shooting down through there. And, it’s quite loud, and it’s 
quite nerve-racking, actually. Your, your adrenaline gets going.  
 
SIMS [0:20:57]: Mhm. 
 
 
11 
PONDER: And then- 
 
SIMS: Go ahead. 
 
PONDER: They captured me and tied me up with a lamp cord and 
threw me in the back of a tank. 
 
SIMS: Uh-oh. And their speaking German the whole time? 
 
PONDER: Uh-huh [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Sounds sort of like a nightmare.  
 
PONDER: Well, it was fun, because you knew you were really safe 
because there was somebody watching [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Right. So, do you remember the names of the countries that 
were, you know, that you were in? Did they like have made up 
names? 
 
PONDER [0:21:33]: Like we were in Cortina. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: And, I think I’ve got some maps up there. I don’t 
remember. I just remember Cortina. 
 
SIMS: And— 
 
PONDER: I know there was a couple other ones. 
 
SIMS: And did they tell you a lot sort of about the country? Or 
were those just things you would, you would make up those 
details, or they weren’t so important for the day-to-day? 
 
PONDER [0:22:02]: Well, when we first started, they did tell us, 
like—like I said, they gave us little scenario type briefings on 
it. But, we kind of made it our own. It was kind of like what—
whatever we turned it into.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: Because it was fictitious to start with, I mean you 
know? 
 
SIMS: Right. You didn’t have to be accurate- 
 
 
12 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS [0:22:26]: Because it doesn’t exist. And were there—were 
you always sort of against the Americans? Or did it change—were 
there different times when you were on the American side? 
 
PONDER: There were times that we welcomed them in, and there 
were times that we hated them. We—and, and, and that was like 
time that I told you the MP jumped off and tried to hit me. I, I 
mean when you’ve got 30 villagers sitting there screaming, 
“Americans go home. We hate you.” You know, “Go home Americans.” 
And they’re standing there, and they, they—they came there to 
help you, and you’re just totally disrespecting them.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: It’s nerve-racking. And, and it rattles them.  
 
SIMS: And what was it like for you to, you know, shout these 
things that are anti-American? You know, was it just acting? Or 
does it feel a little strange to, to say those things? 
 
PONDER [0:23:17]: I think the first time that I yelled it, it 
was kind of like woah. And then after that, you kind of—I, I 
knew, I knew that I wasn’t saying the truth. And I knew that I 
wasn’t speaking to someone that should think that I was speaking 
the truth.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: So, it didn’t really like haunt me or bother me. But, it 
is something that makes you aware that there are people that 
really feel this way. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. So, you mentioned earlier it gave you a different 
perspective by playing the part of a villager and sort of 
understanding it’s not always straight-forward when the 
Americans, you know, come in. And, and maybe something happens 
accidentally. Have, have you ever—have you traveled 
internationally since then? And have you felt like being in role 
play- 
 
PONDER [0:24:10]: I’ve never really ever been out of the United 
States except for to go to Mexico and that was different—that 
was for shopping.  
 
 
13 
SIMS: [Laughing] Yeah. I wonder if, you know, obviously you 
can’t go to Cortina, you know. But it’s—it’s interesting that 
you, you know, you had that change of perspective. Are there any 
other like lessons, or things that you felt you learned in role 
play, like about yourself or about the military that you didn’t 
know before? Even though you had a strong connection, you know, 
to the army? 
 
PONDER [0:24:47]: I learned a lot of things out there, honestly. 
I learned a lot about survival. I learned that people can do a 
lot more than they realize they can do when—that they need to. I 
learned that there’s always—you know that there’s always two 
sides to every story. But when you’re sitting here in your 
house, in your comfort, and you’re thinking that we’re sending 
soldiers over to help people that are in shanties or don’t have 
homes at all or, or little food. And in your mind, you’re 
thinking they need to be grateful—why aren’t they grateful? If 
they aren’t grateful, why are we there helping them? But when 
your kind of thrown in that position, and you’ve been raised the 
way that they’ve been raised and you don’t really understand 
where we’re at. Then it’s kind of hard to be grateful when they 
can—they see that the Americans are coming in and their doing 
destruction to a lot. Like I said, their crops, or, or maybe 
they even, you know, accidentally hit their pigs or their cows 
or whatever. So, I mean, there are two sides to every story. We 
need to remember that.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And like, we used to have church on Sundays. And Sunday 
was Opfor’s favorite time to come in and gas the village. And if 
you’ve ever been gassed, that’s not a fun day. So, you know— 
 
SIMS: So, they would have real gas? Or- 
 
PONDER: Well, it was a mock gas.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: But it was real enough to make snot and tears 
[laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Wow.  
 
PONDER: But and, and—you stop and you think. You know, these 
people are in church. They’re civilians. They don’t even have 
guns. They don’t have weapons at all. They’re sitting there 
 
14 
worshipping whatever God they worship, and somebody flies over 
and puts this gas over you. So, I mean, you know there’s a lot 
of things that, that we don’t know that goes on. And I know 
there’s reasons for it, but there—you know everyone has a reason 
for feeling the way they feel.  
 
SIMS [0:26:56]: So, I’m curious about like the church service. 
Was there—aside from the time when things would be gassed. I 
mean, did you actually go to a, like a building and have a real 
church service?  
 
PONDER: Oh, yeah. We had a church. We had graves. We even had 
names on the graves. And it was usually whatever character we 
was. When our character died, we—we put it a headstone up, or, 
or a cross up. And we painted the name on there. But we- 
 
SIMS: This is in Shughart Gordon? There was- 
 
PONDER: No, this was actually in Carnis.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And they would come from Jettertown. And I can’t even 
remember the name of the other villages. But there was like four 
villages at that time. And they would come over from those towns 
over to Jettertown for church service. And we had—Jack Prevatt 
was our preacher.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And he would get up and he would do a little sermon. And 
we would sing. We had girls that would get up there and sing. 
And we did a whole little church service. 
 
SIMS: Wow. I’ve met Jack. He was real fun to talk to. 
 
PONDER: Yep. And then we had—Pete was our mayor. We had a mayor.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: And then we had Joe. He was our sheriff. We had a little 
sheriff that stayed in the village. He was also our handyman. 
And then we had pigs, and, and goats, and chickens. And Betty 
Bowlan, she was the one that—she had a little café across from 
the general store in, in Carnis.  
 
SIMS [0:28:32]: What did they serve in the café? 
 
15 
 
PONDER: Actually, we made the lunch for whoever was in the 
village and the soldiers. It might be—it might be spaghetti. It 
might be beef stew. It might be chili, hotdogs. Just whatever we 
could—whatever anyone brought out there to cook. Or sometimes 
we’d all chip in, like two or three bucks a piece, and go out 
and buy something to bring out for the next day.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And then she started doing too—I’m not sure how she did 
this. I don’t know what—how, how it came about. But she did go 
get like chips and sodas and stuff. And they sold ‘em to the 
soldiers that had to stay out there. But we didn’t make any 
money on it. We wasn’t allowed to make any money. It was all—
like whatever. We went to Aphees. And whatever was paid for the 
stuff, then that’s what they paid for it. 
 
SIMS: Right. That makes sense. So, it sounds like there was a 
real sense of camaraderie among the villagers.  
 
PONDER: Oh, we had—we was a family. I mean, we was—we was a 
family out there. And we fought, oh yeah [laughing]. But it was 
good fights.  
 
SIMS: So, what are—I mean you’ve worked in all different types 
of jobs. Was the—I mean was this different in terms of feeling 
like a family? Or the intensity of the things you agreed or 
disagreed about?  
 
PONDER [0:30:07]: This was more like a family than any job I’ve 
ever had. I mean, you literally had to watch out for each 
other’s back. And even if there was someone you didn’t care that 
much for, or that you didn’t agree with the way they done 
things. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: You, you still tolerated ‘em. And you still watched out 
for ‘em. I mean, it, it was just a—I mean, you know not 
everybody likes everybody.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
PONDER: But we had honestly—I was making a joke. But we honestly 
had very few discrepancies out there between the role players.  
 
 
16 
SIMS: Mhm. Yeah, and it sounds like a bonding experience that 
you spent so much time together and conditions are probably not 
always easy. 
 
PONDER: Oh, no. We’ve been out there—it, it was pouring down 
rain one time. And Air Force National Guard came out. And I mean 
it was just a summer rain in Louisiana. Nothing bad, just rain, 
just wet.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: So, we get in our car and we’re going out trying to find 
‘em. And they’re all sitting over in tents. And we said, you 
know, what’s going on? Why aren’t they coming out to attack us 
or whatever, or stop us? And they go “Oh no, it’s raining. 
We’re, we’re calling the exercise off until it quits raining.” 
And we’re like, you’ve got to be kidding us. So, we go back and 
sit in our little house—our little stores and stuff and play 
cards [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: I guess that’s the Air Force for you, right? 
 
PONDER: Yeah. It, it, it was kind of sad, actually. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
PONDER: I mean, it really—there was no reason for them to call 
it off in my opinion, but whatever. But no, we’ve been out there 
in the ice and the rain and the storms. And I mean, you have to 
endure whatever they’re enduring.  
 
SIMS [ 0:32:00]: Mhm. So, in a given year that you were working, 
like how often were you working? Cause it’s, it’s sort of like a 
month on a month off, is that right? 
 
PONDER: Oh, no. We worked. Every rotation we worked. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: Or I did. I think most all of us worked pretty much 
every rotation. And they usually did a three-week rotation. And 
then maybe it was a week or two off. And then another three-week 
rotation.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
 
17 
PONDER: I mean, it just kind of varied. There was sometimes in 
there that you would have a little longer off. But just whenever 
the units came through, we were there. 
 
SIMS: And did you feel like the, the pay that you got was sort 
of, you know, equivalent to the work that you did? 
 
PONDER: Quite honestly, I would’ve done it for free. So, it was 
great for me. I mean to me, they overpaid me.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: But you might not want to say that because that might 
hurt other people in the future. But— 
 
SIMS: No, I’ve heard a couple people tell me that, especially 
people who were sort of retired already.  
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: You know, that they would’ve done it for free, too. 
 
PONDER: And I mean if I could go back and it be even similar to 
what it was back then, I’d go back and do it now in a heartbeat. 
 
SIMS [0:33:16]: Mhm. So, tell me about when you had to leave, 
which I assume is because you all were moving. What was that 
like, you know the last couple days you were out there? 
 
PONDER: We actually even debated on me not going. I almost 
rented a house and stayed just for the job. I liked it that 
much.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
PONDER: But we didn’t know we were gonna—the first time we left, 
we didn’t know we were coming back. And as soon as I went back, 
I went back out and told them I wanted to go back to work. And 
they were like, common. And—but it was sad. I, I, I mean it was 
probably the first time that we had ever moved that I wasn’t 
very excited, cause I’m part Gypsy, I think. I like moving.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: But didn’t—I really didn’t want to leave the job. I 
really loved it. And I loved the people. We just had a good 
 
18 
time. We even got together when we wasn’t at work. So, I mean 
that tells you how close we were.  
 
SIMS: And what would you all do after hours? 
 
PONDER: That’s one of those don’t tell things. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Fair enough.  
 
PONDER: It was mostly—it was mostly stress relief parties. 
 
SIMS [0:34:30]: Uh-huh. Um, do you still keep in touch with 
people that you did role play with? 
 
PONDER: Oh, yes. I have probably 10 or more on my Facebook. And 
I talk to them fairly regular. In fact, we just had one of our 
really good friends pass away the first of January that worked 
out there. May, or Maggie, she was—I can’t even remember the 
name of that village she was in. Jettertown. No it wasn’t 
Jettertown. Carnis, Jettertown —it was the one that they built 
that was over on the side, she was over there. And she—she did a 
lot of good stuff out there, too. But she just passed away this 
year. 
 
SIMS: I’m sorry to hear that. So do you, do you go back to Fort 
Polk on a—have you been to the villages, you know, since you 
left? 
 
PONDER: I haven’t gotten to go to the village. I—we went back, 
it’s been about three of four years ago. Yeah, about three years 
ago. We just went back to visit. And I texted everybody and told 
‘em I was gonna be in town, and we all met at the state house 
had dinner. And went and rode around post—I think there was a 
rotation going on. And I didn’t go out. It was raining too. It, 
it was nasty.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: But I didn’t go out there. But I do plan to get out 
there. I want to get back out there in a little, see how they’re 
doing. I know the thing that kind of bothers me is, they had 
this big cement thing as you entered into Carnis. And the units 
would paint their insignia on it when they left, after they did 
a rotation.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
 
19 
PONDER: And I heard that they had quit letting them paint that. 
And I thought that was a, a nice touch. 
 
SIMS [0:36:23]: Was it up sort of atop a hill, kind of— 
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. It’s still there, at least as of a year ago. I 
think—they might’ve run out of space. I’m not sure. 
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: It was like—yeah. It was like—they had a traffic circle up 
there for a while. And they had these giant swords, like Saddam 
Hussein had. But those have come down. 
 
PONDER: But, I don’t know. I, I, I think it’s a valuable thing 
for the soldiers. Because like I said, we can really push their 
buttons.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And I would rather push their buttons here, when it’s 
pretend, then for some civilian to push their buttons and them 
get hurt or killed when they didn’t need to. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Yeah, it’s sort of surprising sometimes to hear like 
how much they—like I talked to someone else who got, who did get 
head butted pretty seriously.  
 
PONDER: Yep. 
 
SIMS: You know, which I’ve never been in that situation. But it 
sounds very scary.  
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: But it seems like people, like their adrenaline just takes 
over.  
 
PONDER: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: And they react. 
 
PONDER: But during the Golden Nugget too, we had a, we had a 
campout in the middle of the woods. And it was just almost like 
 
20 
we just were squatting there. I mean, it, it really wasn’t a—we 
didn’t even have a tent. It was just a—we were just there. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: We had a port-a-potty out there, because I mean, you 
know, you have to have necessities. And as the troops come 
through. Well, we got bored out there, cause you had to wait for 
them to go through the other lanes to get to your lane. And some 
of the soldiers took the port-a-potty and hoisted it up into a 
tree and tied it where nobody could get to it. Well, the general 
come out and he was standing under the port-a-potty. And 
everybody’s just standing there like, oh my god it’s going to 
hit him. We’re going to die. And I don’t think he ever realized 
that that port-a-potty was above his head. 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
PONDER: Because nobody got in trouble. But the port-a-potty came 
down real quick after he left [laughing].  
 
SIMS [0:38:29]: Wow, it sounds like a movie. 
 
PONDER: I mean, well there’s quite—I mean there—you have no 
idea. Like one time, two soldiers that were in the village went 
missing—a boy and a girl. And everybody kept looking for ‘em. 
Well you know what the water buffalo is?  
 
SIMS: Um. 
 
PONDER: It’s where they bring in water for you to use out of 
this big tank thing. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. It’s like on a truck. 
 
PONDER: Well, they were down in the water buffalo.  
 
SIMS: Wow. That’s impressive. 
 
PONDER: [Laughing] I mean, you know, it wasn’t all good.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. So they, they got caught, I guess. 
 
PONDER: Yeah, they got caught. And then nobody wanted to drink 
out of the water buffalo [laughing].  
 
 
21 
SIMS: Yikes. Can you think of anything we haven’t covered that 
you think people ought to know about your experience there? 
 
PONDER: I just think people in general need to realize that the 
military is important. And even if we aren’t in war times, we 
don’t need a skeleton military, because you never know when 
we’re gonna to need them. And they need to be trained. And they 
need to be trained how to treat people that they have, that they 
don’t come in contact with. People that are not going to be for 
them, even though you’re there to help them. They need to 
understand they have a diff—they have another side of the story. 
And I think that the villages are important. And I would like to 
see more training of that nature, honestly. 
 
SIMS [0:40:10]: Mhm. Um- 
 
PONDER: But I do wish they would give them a little more free 
play, because I think when you script it. I think—I think you 
you lose something. I think that you have to have those spur of 
the moment, little things going on. You, I mean—and I think they 
probably did it because of safety. It’s probably—I mean because 
we did a lot of things that were dangerous. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
PONDER: And we lived. But, you know, we were smarter than the 
generation now a-days.  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Right.  
 
PONDER: [Laughing] And you can quote me on that. 
 
SIMS: So, when you were at other bases, did you ever see any 
other villages?  
 
PONDER: No, but we were in Colorado. I did go out for an 
exercise that they were trying to do. And they called me because 
they knew I had worked at Fort Polk. It didn’t go very well, and 
the people that they had trying to do the exercise wouldn’t 
listen. And I couldn’t work the way that it was going. I don’t 
think—I don’t know if they’re still doing it. I know they didn’t 
do anymore right after we did that one because it just—it went 
really bad. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
 
22 
PONDER: It was just—I mean it—I mean nothing bad happened. It 
was just—there was no point to it. It was just stupid. They 
didn’t—it didn’t work. 
 
SIMS: Right. Can you tell me a little bit about the store that 
you have now? What do you sell? 
 
PONDER [0:41:35]: Oh, I have, I have a—I have jewelry. I have 
conceal and carry purses. I have knives, survival items, flags, 
figurines. It’s just a gift shop. I have a little bit of 
everything. I even have a little bit of clothing.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. So, it does sound like your general store a little 
bit.  
 
PONDER: Yeah, except for its all new [laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Is it like in a mall, or- 
 
PONDER: No, I’m actually on the, on a Highway 81 in Oklahoma. 
It’s just a, a store building.  
 
SIMS: Okay. Well Gwen, I really appreciate you taking the time 
to talk with me. What I’ll do is-  
 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 42:38]