Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Anne P. Roda interview, 2013-11-11 : interview conducted by Deborah 
Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00533 
Date: November 11, 2013 
Duration: 1:04:10 
 
0:00:03.0 Debbie Fant introduces herself. It’s November 11, 2013, and 
she’s interviewing Anne Roda in Anne’s home in Seattle, Washington.  
 
0:00:22.4 Fant asks basic biographical data of Anne Roda.  
 
0:01:40.7 Anne is a gardener through Seattle Parks and Recreation. She’s 
a union member, but doesn’t remember which one it is. (It is the Laborers 
International Union of North America, LIUNA, Local 1239)  
 
0:02:35.4 Anne came to the job of a gardener late. Her first real job 
after college was teaching. She got a BA and MA in Asian Language and 
Literature, then got a Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology. She lived abroad, 
teaching, for a number of years--China and Japan. Her research for her 
doctorate was mostly in Seattle, among second-generation Japanese 
Americans in Seattle. She taught anthropology, cultural studies, both 
abroad and in Seattle. She reached a point after twenty years of teaching 
that there was a lot of change in her life, she felt it was time to 
change her work as well. She took a break from teaching. She was working 
in a friend’s yard, felt it was peaceful and enjoyed it a lot. When it 
came time to think about what she was going to do next, she decided she 
wanted to garden. It took a while to come to that--she had so much 
training in other areas. And to decide to all of a sudden become a 
gardener felt a bit ridiculous. So she had to sit with it for quite a 
while and be okay with it. Eventually she said, she went from culture to 
agriculture.  
 
0:05:15.5 She went back to school, Edmonds Community College, which had a 
good horticultural program with evening classes. She thought, to test 
herself to see if it were something she really wanted to do, shed better 
get a job. She got a job with a company that entailed going around to 
places and taking care of plants at commercial properties, primarily. 
That WAS a test--she got the job in the fall, it was a ten-hour a day job 
for four days a week. Started at 6am, driving a funky van by herself. At 
first she had another woman with her, to show her the route. No heat in 
the van. Her hands would get cold and frozen. She thought her fingertips 
were going to be frostbitten. But she still felt she wanted to do 
gardening. That was a good test for her. She worked at that job for about 
nine months.  
 
0:06:49.8 Then she saw another job that intrigued her, with Molbak’s 
Nursery (in Woodinville, WA). In the tree and shrub area. She got that 
job, she was tired of driving. She worked there for two years, and it was 
a very nice place to work. Good people and good job. It didn’t pay very 
much, like most nursery jobs. She was still going to school in the 
evenings, and one of her instructors noted there was a temporary job 
opening with the Seattle Parks Department and told Anne that was a good 
place to work. So she applied for that job and got it. 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
 
0:07:47.1 It turned out she thought it was an internship. She got a leave 
of absence from Molbak’s and went to the job in the City, working in the 
greenhouse and the nursery. She was learning a lot more about 
propagation. It turned out the job was what the City calls a "seasonal" 
job--six months, then you’re laid off. Then maybe you can come back later 
for another six months. But after it was over, they asked if she’d like 
to work on a landscape crew that needed help. So Anne had to make a 
decision whether she was going back to Molbak’s or take the chance of 
going with the City in the hopes she could continue with the fill-in 
jobs. She decided to take the risk and went with the City.  
 
She worked on the landscape crew for about three months, and enjoyed 
that. They were out doing big projects, all over the city. It was hard 
physical labor. They were doing a lot of removal of invasive plants, or 
planting big trees. She loved being outside, loved the work, loved 
feeling like she was contributing to making the City a beautiful place 
for everyone. Everyone can enjoy the parks.  
 
0:09:50.2 A job opening came up on the landscape crew a year later. Out 
of 350 candidates, she was selected. Partly, she thinks, it was because 
she’d worked on the crew and knew the routine. The people who interviewed 
her weren’t on the crew. That was exciting, and she still has that job 
today. She’s taken other opportunities to work with the City to work 
other jobs, but she has stuck with the landscape crew.  
 
0:10:59.3 Anne Roda’s father was a Pacifist and got a job during WW II in 
the relocation camps, basically helping Japanese people relocate from the 
camps. They could move out of the camps if they got a job in the center 
of the country--they couldn’t live on either coast. He learned Japanese. 
Mostly the people he was helping were the Nisei (second-generation 
Japanese) as well as the Isei, the first generation. That’s how she ended 
up being born in Manzanar. It probably influenced her study of Asian 
culture and literature. She first wanted to learn Chinese, ultimately 
ended up being involved with Asian Studies and Asian cultures.  
 
0:12:37.8 Her involvement with Asian culture affects her aesthetic with 
gardening. Working with the City, they have landscape architects that 
design the projects. She works on a crew that installs the projects and 
maintains them. But in her own yard, she likes a lot of Japanese ideas of 
form and not so much color, not so many flowers. Lots of leaf colors, 
shapes of plants.  
 
0:13:26.2 Anne has typical days, but her crew never knows what they’ll 
do, one day to the next. That’s one reason she likes it, more exciting 
than a routine. In the districts, people have their routines and go from 
park to park. Anne’s crew works on Capital Projects, projects funded 
through a City Capital Project, selected through a vetting process 
through the Parks and through the districts. The City is divided into 
different districts, and each district has parks that they think need 
special attention or they have special projects. They submit some of 
those through a process; administrators vet those and decide which ones 
to fund. After that process, which is usually in March, Anne’s crew will 
get their lists of the projects they’ll work on. They try to spread them 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
out through the City. Her crew consists of four gardeners, one lead 
gardener and three others; a utility laborer, and a laborer.  
 
The gardeners are each assigned specific projects. Order plants, decide 
procedural things. You have to go to site meetings. There will be site 
meetings on each project, which includes people from each district, a 
landscape architect. Sometimes irrigation people. Anybody that might have 
some interest in that particular project. That’s part of the decision-
making process. That sometimes takes a while with all the vested 
interests.  
 
0:16:15.1 Then they’d start work on the project. But they don’t always 
work on one project, finish it, and go on to the next. Sometimes they’ll 
clear a project, there will be a lot of blackberry or vine weed or 
something that has to be cleared. They might do that, then let it sit for 
a while, then plant later. There’s a variety of ways that they’ll 
approach a project. Their typical day, they’ll gather around their 
dispatch table, and the lead senior gardener, who has an office of his 
own, fields the phone calls. People call them to ask for help on certain 
things that aren’t their projects. The lead will come in and lay down 
what they’ll be doing that day in terms of which project. Then they go 
out and "tool up." Drive to their project and start working.  
 
0:17:34.7 Their days start at 7 AM, and they meet at Jefferson 
Horticultural, or Citywide Horticulture on Beacon Hill. They work until 
3:30 PM. "Tool up" means they need different tools because of the variety 
of jobs they do every day. Some parks people can drive around with the 
tools they need in their trucks. Anne un-tools and re-tools every day. It 
depends on what job they’re doing.  
 
Some of their common tools are a pulaski, (pick); loppers for pruning; 
she always has her belt, which has a pruner and a hori-hori (hand-
weeder), and a saw for pruning. Beyond that, they carry a variety of 
things; sometimes tall pruners, wheelbarrows, shovels, round point and 
square point shovels, pitchforks, potato forks, rakes--garden rakes and 
fan rakes, and tarps.  
 
0:19:42.1 On the crew, she does a lot of heavy work and a lot of planting 
in the fall, which is fun. It feels the most creative, that you’re 
actually getting the plants in the ground. Even though there’s a 
landscape architect, a lot of times you can tweak it and have some input 
into how it’s going. They usually have some input with the architects on 
the plants themselves, because the architects are not always so tuned 
into maintenance problems or issues. They tend to listen to the gardeners 
more than before. Fall is her favorite time, it’s a fun time to plant.  
 
The weather in Seattle is often nice, but even if it’s raining, you just 
dress for it. Unless it’s real mucky, that gets old. Especially if you’re 
flushing mulch around--that gets heavy in the rain. Ordinarily the rain 
doesn’t faze them.  
 
0:21:08.5 Anne wears layers. You start out, in the cool or freezing 
mornings, sometimes they’ve planted in the freezing weather. They’re 
always outside. No time when they can say, "Oh, were staying in today!" 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
When it snows, or there’s a storm, they’re expected to help shovel snow 
in the community centers. She wears lots of layers, especially in the 
colder times. She likes pants that either have a lining or wears silk 
underwear to keep herself warm. Different layers of top clothes--jacket, 
a hat--rain hat or wool hat; gloves. She sometimes uses hand warmers in 
her gloves because her hands tend to get cold. Good socks and boots. 
Boots are important. They get a boot allowance. Her boots run $250 to 
$300.  
 
0:22:58.7 She used to get her boots at REI, because they were the most 
comfortable. Really good hiking boot and waterproof. But the parks 
decided they should all have steel-toed or composite-toed boots. So it’s 
been harder for Anne to find boots that she really likes that are that 
style. Sometimes she reverts to her old boots. You can buy the boots 
various places. Whistle Work Wear, (problems with mic, Fant moved mic 
closer to Anne)  
 
0:24:26.9 Anne gets boots at a regular work boot place. The boot 
allowance is $90 a year. Usually it goes for three years, then they start 
over. So you get up to $270. She usually buys boots every three years. 
 
0:25:09.4 When the weather is hot, they’re not allowed to wear shorts or 
sleeveless shirts. So she wears one layer--just a short-sleeved T shirt 
and some thin long pants. She wears the same boots, because she wants the 
support. A thinner glove, and a sun hat instead of a wool or rain hat. 
Always tries to wear sunblock. There are strictures if it’s super-hot. 
When it gets in the 90s, they’re supposed to be sure they take an extra 
break in the afternoon, take water breaks.  
 
0:26:20.5 They don’t bring water with them on the truck. Sometimes 
they’ve had volunteers working with them, then they bring water for them. 
Ordinarily the crew members all have their own water bottles, sometimes 
two if it’s real hot.  
 
0:26:40.0 Anne feels a little sad about lunch. She tries to vary it, but 
it’s become routine. She always used to take a half a sandwich and a 
piece of fruit and her water. Maybe some chips. Now she’s started taking 
a salad, maybe its healthier! Sometimes it’s pretty pathetic--some grains 
with whatever else is in the refrigerator. Maybe some chips, some fruit. 
She usually has a break, tries to get some yogurt on the break. They eat 
in their trucks. They live in their trucks when they’re not outside. You 
just want something that you don’t have to heat up.  
 
They’re not supposed to go anywhere specifically to get food. If they can 
travel on their route and they need to stop to get something on their 
way, that’s okay. But not to go and make a special trip at lunch to get 
something. So she tries to keep it simple. Sometimes they’re at a park 
where they might be able to use its headquarters and heat something up in 
a microwave, but they never know that for sure. So she packs her own 
lunch.  
 
0:28:39.5 There are six of them on the crew, and sometimes they split up. 
If they have different projects they need to check in on. Anne is 
generally in one truck with three guys, and there’s another truck with 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
two people. Unless they have to split for some reason, that’s usually how 
it works. Their truck is a flat-bed truck. 
 
0:29:29.8 It’s not unusual for a woman to be a gardener, but on the 
landscape crew, it tends to be harder physical work. There is one other 
woman on the crew as well. It’s been that way for the last ten years. 
There hasn’t been a lot of change since she got there. The laborers and 
the utility have changed, but not the gardeners.  
 
0:30:13.8 The hardest part of the job is getting up in the morning. 
That’s hard for Anne. Other than that, the hardest part of the job 
itself, there are days when they’ve had to do a zillion chips on a 
project, and it’s all uphill. Those are the tough days, if it’s hot or 
rainy or whatever. Those are the days you wonder, Is it over yet? But 
they don’t have that too often. (Stopped the tape while Anne worked with 
a repairman who came to her house).  
 
0:31:12.8 Anne went to school for gardening. She had done a little 
gardening on her own before, but didn’t know the extensive numbers of 
plant names, all of the stuff she learned in school. Only basic stuff. 
She planted things, but that was it.  
 
0:31:50.3 The program she went through is two years, but since she went 
at night, it took her three years. It’s called an Associate of Arts in 
Ornamental Horticulture.  
 
0:32:33.4 Anne thinks a lot of the things that she learned in school were 
applied on the job. She got trained in pruning, which she didn’t do much 
of at the nursery. Little bits, but mostly plants are young and are 
moving all the time because you’re selling them. Things like pruning, 
they do a fair amount of that with trees and shrubs. She learned about 
insects and diseases and how to deal with those.  
 
She’s used knowledge she got both at the nursery and on the job, in 
eradicating invasive weeds. That’s been on-the-job training. Knotweed 
(Japanese knotweed) and some things she didn’t know about from school. A 
lot of people are still grappling with those, still wondering how to get 
rid of knotweed. Continually on-the-job learning going on.  
 
0:34:16.6 When Anne first started on the crew, the lead was laisse-faire. 
Non-directive, lets people feel and see what they should be doing. At 
first she felt a little lost. She wasn’t sure. She’d start doing 
something, and watch other people and learn like that. But there was one 
guy she worked with a lot, he’s had a lot more landscaping experience 
than she’d had. That was his career. He’s in his mid-50s. They both have 
things that they share. She knows certain things, and they’ve come 
together on what they try to do. They’re trying to put together a book on 
tree identification from leaves. They’ve been collecting leaves, 
laminating those. That’s a project they do together. He’s good at knowing 
things like irrigation, things that Anne isn’t always aware of.  
 
Concrete stuff. Sometimes they put in steps, for example, wooden steps at 
places like the Arboretum. There’s a fair amount of carpentry they’re 
doing. So the job is really varied, and because he’s had a lot of 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
experience and they get along, Anne looks to him for certain things like 
that.  
 
0:36:28.6 Anne knew she was truly a part of the crew when she got hired. 
She’d worked with them three months, then came back and worked a bit more 
before she started back at the greenhouse nursery. She’d worked with the 
crew before she got the full-time job. Once she got the full-time job, it 
felt like she was part of the crew. She knew them. That sealed the deal.  
 
0:37:14.8 They all joke around. It was funny when she first started 
because she didn’t understand why people would throw things at each 
other--like when kids are outside playing, it tends to rub off on 
gardeners. They say things that make one another laugh. But nothing 
specific, it’s all situational. No nicknames for people. Sometimes joking 
around they’ll say stuff, but it’s pretty much their own names that get 
used.  
 
0:38:14.1 Anne was required to join the union once she got a full-time 
job. They encouraged her to attend a union meeting, or three meetings. 
She did that initially. But they were at night, down at the union hall, 
so it was a special effort to get there. It was good to get a sense of 
what goes on. That’s the only time she’s been to a meeting. But she votes 
on issues. She feels the union, while many people would say they could do 
this or that, they’re not perfect, but Anne thinks they are a force to be 
reckoned with that gives the workers some power.  
 
The gardeners did have to take furlough days a couple of years ago when 
the City was under a tight budget, but they voted on that. In general, 
the union keeps the wages a living wage. If she were going to work in a 
nursery, she wouldn’t make a living wage. But working for the City, she 
can. She can be a gardener and make a living wage. When Anne was teaching 
at Edmonds Community College, a part-time instructor, there was no union 
representative for part-timers. She started a movement because there were 
so many things they weren’t getting--health care was iffy, all that kind 
of stuff that the full-time people took for granted. It got going 
finally. So Anne is a firm believer that unions are a critical thing for 
workers in many professions. Otherwise, you don’t have enough weight to 
make your voice heard.  
 
0:41:14.9 Anne thinks the aesthetic input she has in a job has developed 
over time. One thing she’s aware of now is the "edges." That wasn’t 
something she was conscious of before. By "edges," she means the physical 
edges of projects, how they look. It’s like a frame. If the edges aren’t 
right, the whole thing doesn’t look right. For example, someone edging 
their lawn. If you’re chipping, then you should dig a trench down on the 
edge so the chips lay flat and go in, they’re not popping up over the 
sidewalk. Simple things like that, she hadn’t thought of those things 
before.  
 
Or putting a barrier of some type to keep the distinct parts, the lawn 
from the bed, for example. When they can, they often put something like 
that in because it ultimately saves labor. You’re keeping people from 
constantly having to weed to prevent things from growing in that area. 
That’s one aesthetic thing that was new for her.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
 
0:42:59.0 When they’re working on big landscapes (as opposed to 
homeowners), you’re dealing with large flows of plants. You look at the 
whole flowing line, especially with big areas you have to be conscious of 
that. People seeing a landscape by driving by, a lot of the landscapes in 
parks are what people see driving by. Or people who walk by. Just being 
conscious of how people see it from different angles, making it visible.  
 
0:44:04.0 Safety issues are big ones. They’re constantly trying to be 
aware. They’re sometimes in the street or near the street if they’re 
working in a park area. They have their safety vests on to be visible, 
they wear hard hats when they’re working with heavy equipment. There’s a 
heavy equipment crew they sometimes work with, so they have to wear 
protective gear. Also, physically they’ve had ergonomic people come. They 
have safety meetings every month, a whole working group. For example, she 
just had a back injury that was probably from over-working. Before that 
was healed, she was working on a slope and twisted her knee. So sometimes 
you get compound things that happen. You have to be aware of your own 
physical safety. She does stretching in the morning before she goes to 
work to be sure she’s warmed up.  
 
Bee stings, this year they all got stung. This year was a busy bee or 
wasp year, yellow jackets. Maybe because of the extended heat we had. 
They’re usually pretty careful, but there happened to be one on a glove 
in the truck and she picked it up and said, "Hmm. That felt funny!" One 
guy is allergic, so he needs to get Benadryl or something right away if 
he gets stung. And they’re sometimes dealing with big tree limbs. They’re 
not the tree crew, but they do some fairly good-size pruning. They have 
to be aware of that kind of stuff. They have a four-foot rule. They try 
not to work too close together because they’re using big tools, and it 
would be easy to hit somebody if you’re too close. 
 
0:47:15.4 "Love your load" is a saying they learned from an ergonomic 
consultant. If you have a heavy load, hold it close, because then your 
center of balance is better. They’ll toss that out to each other, "Love 
your load!" Also, Watch Out! Stand Back! Coming Through! 
 
0:47:54.7 Anne would suggest this line of work if someone loves being 
outside, loves plants, gardening, and all that it entails. Getting down 
and dirty. It’s not a job where you stay clean. One time they’d been on a 
particularly mucky site, and they had their rain gear on, they went into 
a store because they needed some food. They were in there, and a guy 
looked at Anne and another woman Anne was working with and said, "What do 
you do, work in a sewer or something?" They always remember that. "No, 
were just gardeners!" You have to be a person who doesn’t mind getting 
mucky, getting wet, getting down on your hands and knees. For someone who 
likes that, shed definitely recommend the job.  
 
0:49:05.8 If you use "technology" in the broad sense of "tools," they use 
technology and heavy equipment. But in terms of electronic type of 
technology, the landscape architects do their drawings on computer. Those 
get copied and sent to the crew. So they use technology in that sense. 
Ordering plants, they can fax orders to the nursery or call or email. 
Those are the few rare times they use any kind of electronic stuff. That 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
said, she did fill in for a plant ecologist for a while. In that 
position, they are using GIS location a lot, the whole mapping thing is 
happening. The City and the Parks in particular are doing a lot of GIS 
mapping of the parks so that things are locatable. But her crew doesn’t 
have access to that, don’t use it. They go out on the site and say, "This 
looks like where we should put the plants."  
 
0:50:58.9 Anne likes to work in Lincoln Park because when they work 
there, they’ve usually been working on the water side. It’s always nice, 
even in the winter. It’s a nice site. Not too many people, usually. Some 
sites are nice, like Green Lake, but there are so many people that you’re 
constantly having to work around them or people are asking you questions. 
They do a fair amount of work at Volunteer Park, which is a nice park. As 
her lead said, "We work in picture postcards." They work in really 
beautiful places, like Seward Park. Some of the parks were designed by 
the Olmsted Brothers--Seward and Volunteer. They designed mostly parks 
around Lake Washington. The crew does a lot of work at Colman, another 
Olmsted park.  
 
0:52:22.0 For Volunteer and Seward Parks, there’s a foundation, the 
Olmsted Foundation, that watches carefully what gets planted because they 
want to preserve that legacy. Sometimes it’s controversial because people 
think sometimes certain plants no longer work there or there are problems 
with them. Sometimes a tug of war between holding that exact legacy and 
the spirit of the legacy. A consciousness of what’s being planted at all 
times.  
 
0:53:13.0 Anne is so in awe of the Olmsted Brothers because of their 
vision. She doesn’t think they have to exactly preserve it as it was, but 
she admires their vision and what they did in Seattle and other places. 
But she’s more aware of Seattle. Without that, it would have been private 
property. People wouldn’t have had access. (Tape stopped for a bit.) 
 
0:54:10.7 One project comes to mind there were problems with. It was at 
Ravenna Park, on a creek over there. They were trying to remove some 
invasives and plant some natives, skunk cabbage and various things. For 
some reason, can’t remember all the details, nothing ever took. The whole 
thing was a wash. There must have been some reason, but all she can 
remember now is that it didn’t work. Now, if there’s some temporary 
setback on a project, like something doesn’t grow or doesn’t work in the 
spot, usually they maintain their projects for three years, then the 
project goes to the district. Within the three years, they monitor the 
project, makes sure it gets watered. They want the plants to get 
established.  
 
If something in that time looks like it’s not working, they’ll replace it 
and try to make sure whatever is going there will be successful. 
Sometimes it is discouraging. After those three years, and it reverts to 
the districts they’ll go by and see that the district is not able to put 
in the time because they don’t have the resources. Sometimes they see 
their projects deteriorate. Sometimes, if they have time, they’ll go back 
and try to help refurbish it a bit. They just did that with one project. 
Took out all the blackberries that had reestablished themselves. A 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
project might look good for a while, but six years pass and you go back, 
and you say, Oh my gosh! What happened?  
 
0:56:50.8 Anne is most proud of Kobe Terrace Park. It’s a very urban 
park, and it was, when they first started, about eight years ago, a 
project they did in segments. It’s a big park. It was all ivy and 
blackberry and any invasive you could think of, as well as some nice 
trees. It was a process of getting that all out, get it out good enough 
that you could plant other things in there. They did that over a period 
of four years, just the whole park. They go back, still, to help out 
because it’s a big place and it needs a lot of attention. The plants that 
they planted, a lot are bamboo and grasses. They were able to cover the 
ground enough so that the weeds are having a hard time reasserting 
themselves.  
 
To her, that’s the one she thinks of when she thinks of the most 
transformational project they’ve done. You see all kinds of people at 
that park. For a while there were issues because dog owners would let 
their dogs run wild, but despite all that, it looks pretty good. To her, 
that’s one of the ones she’s most proud of. Because it’s a very urban 
park and required a lot to get it from what it looked like to now.  
 
0:58:59.0 If she were to suggest four or five parks to go to, and some 
things to look at in the landscape, what would they be? Anne would 
suggest Seward Park. It’s nothing her crew had to do with, but to see the 
grand old forest there, which has some fantastic second-growth forest 
trees in there. You can’t hardly believe you’re in the city, walking 
through there. You don’t see anything--you’re in the deep forest. That’s 
a special place.  
 
Also, the Arboretum is a beautiful place. There are so many varieties of 
trees that are really established--big trees--that you won’t see in other 
places, if you’re a tree person. And they’ve just put in the New Zealand 
garden. That’s supposed to be the biggest New Zealand garden outside of 
New Zealand. It’s going to be amazing, especially as it gets more 
established. Both the Japanese Garden and Kubota Garden are beautiful 
places to go and see more of the Japanese style aesthetic. The Japanese 
Garden is more formal, with a beautiful pond and Japanese maples and 
conifers. The Kubota Garden she calls the American-Japanese Garden, 
because it was first the Kubota Nursery. He was a landscaper, and it was 
eventually taken over by the City. It has some gorgeous Japanese maples 
and beautiful settings. It’s a great place for people to enjoy walking 
and seeing nature. If they’re more into formal gardens, she thinks 
Volunteer Park is a good example. Her crew helps do all of its annual 
planting, in front of the museum and conservatory, nice displays of 
color. 
 
1:02:21.4 Her crew doesn’t have anything to do with the old-growth 
forests in the city. When she worked for the plant ecologists, she spent 
some time there. She worked with volunteer groups and tried to make sure 
they kept out invasives. And they occasionally did some plantings. But on 
the landscape crew, they don’t work in the old-growth forests.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9
1:03:01.2 She doesn’t have a favorite plant, it’s like a favorite food. 
She likes them all! She likes the ones that are less invasive. In her own 
yard, she has a lot of Japanese maples, so that’s one of her favorite 
plants. She likes different plants in different settings.  
 
1:04:03.0 She’s happy she got into gardening, and she’s happy she has a 
job.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
10